
<meta year="2000" title="Leader's Statements in a Meeting with Prime Minister of Spain"/>
Ayatollah Khamenei further hoped that the visit would prove beneficial to the relations between the two countries, and that it would result in the expansion of ties and closer bonds between Tehran and Madrid.
The Leader referred to the fact that although the relations between Iran and Spain were established a long time ago, there has not been a significant growth in these relations over the past couple of decades. He stated that the present relations between the two countries are good, but that they could be much better.
"Your proposals for cooperation with Iran will be warmly received by our officials. I think Spain can be a good partner for the Islamic Republic," the Leader noted.
Elsewhere in his remarks, Ayatollah Khamenei stated:
"An important point with regard to relations between the two countries is attaining a common cultural understanding. This common understanding is different from being of the same cultural views and attitudes.
"Fortunately, due to its Islamic background, Spain is capable of arriving at a common understanding with the Islamic Republic. Some of our partners have not been able to reach a common understanding with us, and the ups and downs that sometimes occur in our relations with these countries mostly stem from this lack of understanding. 
"Over the past two decades, we have witnessed appropriate stances on the part of Spain, and this has provided a suitable ground for the expansion of relations between the two countries.
"The very fact that you referred to the need for mutual respect indicates a common understanding between our two nations. In general, when officials of the two countries hold the belief that the identity and values of any nation and any culture should be respected and given due attention, they will be able to strengthen and expand their relations more easily."
Further in his statements, the Leader of the Islamic Revolution noted:
"I feel pleased about your remarks concerning our constitution. I have heard that you are a jurist. Thus, naturally you have adequate knowledge of legal matters. As you have noticed, our constitution has many strong and positive points. I hope your delegation's talks with Dr. Habibi and also with other Iranian officials prove constructive and yield positive results."
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say:
"We attach significance to our relations with Europe. We believe that the United States and the West are not the same. U.S. officials are trying to inculcate in world public that the West means the United States, but we refuse to accept this false notion. 
"The chaos and disorder currently existing in different parts of the world stems from this same spirit of vanity and egoism. For instance, with regard to the issue of Palestine, U.S. officials are unconditionally and fully supporting the Zionist regime's crimes and atrocities against the Palestinian people.
"However, we believe that this U.S. policy has been defeated, and you can see the signs of its failure in the brave resistance of the Palestinians and also in the massive anti-U.S. and anti-Zionist demonstrations throughout the world. It is quite clear that the countdown has begun against the Zionist occupiers of Palestine.
"We describe this spirit of conceitedness and narcissism as arrogance in the lexicon of our revolutionary culture. This spirit and attitude always poses a major obstacle to harmony and understanding among nations."
The Leader of the Islamic Revolution also stated:
"Today, a dangerous campaign aimed at subverting the culture and identity of other nations in the world, namely the globalization campaign, has been launched by the United States. We are happy that your country and some other European states are resisting this subversive campaign.
"Cooperation, interaction and communication are part of the nature of all human beings, and different civilizations complement one another. Thus, if this is what is meant by globalization, it is part of the nature of mankind.
"However, what is today taking place in the guise globalization is something quite different, and it is posing a serious threat to all civilizations. What is actually meant by this so-called globalization is that a single country, namely the United States, is trying to impose its own culture, values and demands on all other nations in the world."
In conclusion, Ayatollah Khamenei noted:
"We believe, as you also believe, that the world will definitely be multipolar in the future, as it has always been in the history of mankind. In other words, contrary to the whishes of U.S. officials who are dreaming of a unipolar world in which they can boss other nations, no single country will be able to impose its will and demands on other nations."
