
<meta year="2005" title="Leader's Speech to Judiciary Officials"/>
I welcome all the dear brothers and sisters, both those who are working for the Judiciary and also those who are members of the esteemed families of the Iranian officials who were martyred in the bitter incident of the devastative explosion in the Islamic Republic Party's headquarters in 1981.
I also express my appreciation for the useful and enlightening remarks made by the honorable Chief of the Judiciary, Ayatollah Hashemi-Shahroudi, who is an intellectual scholar and a prominent personality.
When we think about this bitter incident which took place some 24 years ago, we come to the conclusion that this event, despite all its bitterness, conveys a sweet import, which is the fact that our Islamic Revolution and our Islamic Republic system are alive, dynamic and progressive.
It is the same import that is conveyed by the following verses from the Holy Qur'an: "Have you not considered how Allah sets forth a parable of an immaculate word (being) like an immaculate tree, whose root is firm and whose branches are in heaven, yielding its fruit in every season by the permission of its Lord. And Allah sets forth parables for men so that they may be heedful." (14: 24-25)
This is a Qur'anic parable, and its manifestations in our time are our revolution, our Islamic system and the leadership of our late magnanimous Imam Khomeini. They are alive. They are like a thriving tree whose root is sound and healthy. The tree faces different trials and various problems and hardships. However, following the shedding of its leaves in autumn, it will once again flourish and blossom and yield fruit in spring and prove its liveliness to all.
We have witnessed many such bitter incidents ever since the victory of the Islamic Revolution. A great number of our revolutionary figures, including renowned philosopher Motahhari, President Rajayee, Prime Minister Bahonar and Chief Justice Beheshti, have been martyred at the hands of the terrorists. Despite all these dastardly assassinations and counterrevolutionary measures, our Islamic system has continued to thrive and prosper because of its sound and healthy root.
What is especially surprising is that when terrorists assassinated our high-ranking officials and gave rise to bitter incidents in this country, those presently claiming to counter terrorism talked sarcastically about the annihilation of the Iranian nation. But it was soon proved that they were wrong.
Our revolution is alive. The shedding of leaves in autumn is quite natural for a tree. But what is important is that there should be blossoming and thriving in spring. This is a general rule that can be applied to all living things in the world.
Thank God, despite all the negative propaganda and hostile measures such as political and economic pressures and cultural inroads, our revolution has continued to make progress. Our revolution is alive, dynamic and advancing on the path of progress and development. 
As you can presently see, although the enemies of our nation witnessed the grandeur of the Iranian people's 30 million-strong presence at the polls in the recent presidential election and although they felt humiliated as a result, they are still refusing to acknowledge the glory created by our nation on the Election Day.
The enemies of the Iranian nation felt humiliated, but they are not willing to admit their defeat and humiliation. However, it is clear that the Iranian people's high turnout in the 9th presidential election and their massive and enthusiastic presence at the polls foiled the enemies in their plots against our country and displayed our nation's firm resolve to protect the Islamic Republic system.
This will also be the case in the future, but as long as our nation is characterized by piety and virtue. Piety is what attracts divine mercy. We should avoid pride and vanity, as it has always led to the collapse of nations and governments. 
We should strive and persevere in our efforts. No nation has ever achieved progress without striving, perseverance, innovation and initiative. However, success in achieving progress is bestowed by Almighty Allah, and piety is the first requirement for treading this path. This is why piety has been enjoined by all prophets.
The 9th presidential election was a very great and pleasant event. The enemies had launched a negative propaganda campaign against this election a few months before it was held in our country. They had foreseen and openly said that only 20 percent of the eligible Iranian voters would go to the polls in this election.
In our public statements, we have often told the politicians of the world's power blocs not to be misled about the Iranian nation by their misguided and erroneous analysts, as the Iranian people are not what these analysts claim.
Contrary to the assumptions held by these politicians and analysts, the Iranian nation is a high-spirited and dedicated nation loyal to the principles and values of the Islamic Revolution. The Iranian people are pursuing their noble ideals wholeheartedly and are treading the path to further progress, dignity and grandeur.
But they could not understand these realities about the Iranian people and presented some wrong analyses about our nation. The participation of some 30 million Iranian citizens in the first round of the presidential election and nearly 28 million in the runoff election gave rise to a unique and spectacular event and showed that the Iranian nation is a great and dignified nation.
They should acknowledge the greatness of the Iranian nation. They should try to form a proper understanding of the Iranian nation's logic and standpoints and talk to the Iranian people in a manner compatible with existing realities.
I once again congratulate the Iranian nation on this grand and glorious event, an event which displayed the dignity and greatness of the Iranian people and brought further honor and prestige to our nation. 
Considering that Judiciary officials are present at this meeting, I would like to point out that in the course of the 9th presidential election, certain acts of mudslinging and character assassination were conducted, and I am suspicious of those who were behind these acts.
Of course some of these acts were due to negligence. Some of presidential candidates or their supporters made certain remarks about the system that were not very realistic. They tended to disregard the remarkable achievements and positive measures of the Islamic system and previous governments; but they did so mostly because of negligence.
However, there were some acts that were aimed at discrediting and tainting the reputation of presidential candidates, and they cannot be attributed to ignorance. Some presidential candidates were discredited unfairly and in a dastardly manner. Even an honorable personality such as Hojjatoleslam Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani was not immune from mudslinging and character assassination.
The occurrence of such acts was very unfortunate, although I had called on everybody to avoid engaging in such acts. It is the responsibility of Judiciary officials to try to identify and prosecute the culprits.
Apart from those few who engaged in such acts because of their negligence, most acts of mudslinging and character assassination were conducted by those who were not interested in any of presidential candidates, those whose seditious and divisive acts were only aimed at disturbing the atmosphere of the 9th presidential election and casting aspersions on the Islamic system.
The relevant officials and state organs should try to identify the main culprits, so that it may become clear that the enemies have been involved in giving rise to such acts. 
Unfortunately, some negative remarks targeted our most cherished and respected Basiji youngsters. Those remarks, which were devoid of truth, revealed the attempts made by the enemies to foment discord and division in our country.
The Iranian nation is a faithful nation that is thirsty for justice. Justice was suppressed in this country under the dictatorial rule of kings for many consecutive centuries. The situation got even worse when this dictatorial and despotic rule was combined with foreign influence and interference. The Iranian nation greatly suffered under the combination of these two evil forces in this country.
The Iranian people are thirsty for justice and truth; they are opposed to corruption. The people expect the government to take effective measures to counter corruption and dispense justice in our society. It is the responsibility of government officials to administer social justice and uproot corruption. They should realize what the people's expectations are, and they should make every effort to fulfill those expectations.
The Iranian Judiciary is one of the important government organs the Iranian people are looking to for the administration of justice. The measures that have so far been taken by the Judiciary are valuable, but the Judiciary's performance should create a sense of security and peace of mind in the public.
As I stated at one of my previous meetings with you, the dear brothers and sisters, the Judiciary should act in such a manner that any individual whose rights have been violated will feel sure that his rights will be restored by the Judiciary. This sense of confidence should be created in all Iranian citizens. The Judiciary should make every effort to administer social justice in its real sense.
Another point I would like to mention is the need for strict adherence to the law. The Judiciary should welcome legal supervision over its performance, since supervision will help the Judiciary to carry out its duties and responsibilities in a more efficient manner. 
Fortunately, there are many knowledgeable, upright and virtuous judges and jurists working for the Judiciary. Therefore, all kinds of supervision and fair criticism should be warmly welcomed.
The supervision by different state organizations like the State Inspectorate Organization and other supervisory organs and the views and opinions expressed by judicial experts and jurists from universities and Islamic theological schools will help the Judiciary to improve its performance to a great extent.
Thank God, the Judiciary has strong pillars and solid foundations. It has originated from the sacred roots of the Islamic Republic system, and it relies on the Islamic canons and precepts. Still, the more the Judiciary is exposed to legal and supervisory challenges, the more efficient its performance will become.
We should seek assistance from Almighty Allah and never give up hopes of divine assistance. We should highly value the divine grace and favor that are bestowed on us, and we should be grateful for the care and auspices of His Holiness Imam of the Age - may our souls be sacrificed for his sake.
Finally, we should realize that the immaculate blood of our martyrs that has been shed for the sake of the Islamic Revolution has resulted in the construction of a grand and magnificent edifice, which is so strong that no storm, by the favor of Allah, is able to shake it.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
