
<meta year="2005" title="Leader's Address to Thousands of Iranian Citizens"/>
I welcome you all, the dear brothers and sisters. You have come here from cities in different parts of the country and covered long distances to attend this meeting, which is characterized by great enthusiasm, deep faith and strong motivation.
In particular, I express my regards to the honorable families of martyrs and devotees of the Islamic Revolution who are present at this meeting, and also to the esteemed war-disabled veterans and their families and all those striving in the way of Allah and treading the path of truth and sincere servitude to the Almighty.
I would like to express my felicitations over the birth anniversary of Her Holiness Zaynab (peace and greetings be upon her). She was a perfect example of a Muslim woman, namely the model that Islam has presented to the world. If women in any society follow the model set by Her Holiness Zaynab (peace and greetings be upon her), moral and spiritual values will definitely prevail in that society.
The birth anniversary has been designated as the Day of Nurses, and I would also like to congratulate the esteemed Iranian nurses on this occasion. I hope our dear nurses will be rewarded by the Almighty for the valuable services that they render to the public.
Women are endowed by the Almighty with strong points such as deep faith, composure, which stems from their reliance on Allah, and chastity and purity, which gives them an aura of holiness. With such noble qualities, they are able to play a unique role in society, a role that cannot be played by men. If women with such qualities were not in the world, humanity would not have a real meaning. This is what petrified Western materialism is not able to digest.
Those who have not benefited from religion and spirituality are not able to understand and appreciate such grandeur and exaltation. Those who think the main features of women are their ornaments and makeup and who want women to be characterized by frivolity, light-mindedness and turning into a plaything in the hands of men are not able to understand the real identity of women from the viewpoint of Islam.
Her Holiness Zaynab (peace and greetings be upon her) has been a model for our women in the course of history. Among her main features were wisdom and dignity, valor and strength, compassion and benevolence, explicitness and frankness, poise and serenity, firmness of purpose and at the same time benevolence toward humankind at large, and love and affection for one's husband and children. These are the major qualities of Muslim women.
Fortunately, a large number of women in our society are characterized by such qualities and benefit from these great blessings, although our enemies are making every effort to undermine these qualities. Today, you can see that those societies in which female identity is not shaped by such features are facing certain educational, moral and spiritual problems. 
Spiritual values emanate from families, in which women play a pivotal role, and spread in the entire society. Therefore, in order to promote spiritual and moral values in society, such values should be enhanced in families. Our women can achieve this goal by following the model set by Her Holiness Zaynab (peace and greetings be upon her).
If the essence and nature of mankind is exalted and purified, his or her will and ability to perform different tasks will be greatly strengthened. This notion has been clearly expressed by the poet who says: 
"If one's nature is adorned with knowledge,
One has the power to achieve everything."
The divine nature of women is such that they can not only tread the path of spirituality, progress and scientific and technological development, but they can also help others in their families and their social environment to tread this path.
We are approaching an important event in our country, namely the 9th presidential election which is slated for June 17. The Election Day is the day when the great Iranian nation displays its independence and national identity to the world. It is a significant and decisive day for our nation.
Those who are echoing the negative propaganda of U.S. and Zionist media implying that the Iranian nation is just learning to act democratically are doing a great injustice to our nation. 
The enemies are saying these words in order to despise and humiliate the great Iranian nation. But it is unfortunate that those who have often witnessed the Iranian people's enthusiastic participation in many nationwide elections held after the victory of the revolution, the participation which has been in conformity with the Iranian people's freedom of choice and motivated by their faith, knowledge and awareness, are repeating these unfair remarks.
The Iranian nation was taught by the Islamic Revolution to act democratically. From the beginning of the Iranian history until the Islamic Revolution, the Iranian people were never able to elect the high-ranking officials of their government. But our revolution brought democracy to our country. 
Today, in many parts of the world, nations are not able to elect their government officials. Even in those countries claiming to be democratic and raising the banner of democracy, realities indicate that their democratic system is not as transparent and general as the one in the Islamic Republic.
For instance, in many of these countries, the people vote for the candidates nominated by political parties without having enough familiarity with those candidates, as they have only heard the names of those candidates during their election campaigns. But in the Islamic Republic, no party can enjoin the people to vote in such a manner. The Iranian people vote for presidential candidates based on their familiarity with those candidates, not based on recommendations from influential parties or figures.
Some are trying to make the Iranian parties function like those in the United States and certain European countries, so that a few party officials, motivated by certain political and economic incentives and horse-trading, may decide for the whole general public, and so that the people may vote for their nominated candidates without circumspection. But such efforts have so far proved abortive and will not succeed in the future either.
Thanks to the real democracy existing under the Islamic system, no one in this country, neither the Leader nor the government or different political groups or parties, can enjoin the people to vote for a certain candidate. The people will vote for a candidate whom they consider to be the most competent and suitable after necessary investigations and consultations.
It is likely that the candidate the people have voted for may not be the best choice, but what is important is that it is the people themselves who have decided who to vote for. Besides, if the people cast their votes with the intention of establishing Islamic values in society, they will also be rewarded by the Almighty for their good intention. 
In the upcoming presidential election, there are candidates for all kinds of political, economic, social and cultural inclinations and tendencies in Iran. This will enable any Iranian citizen to vote for the candidate who shares his or her views on major issues. Fortunately, the Iranian people are very enthusiastic about the upcoming election, and we will surely witness a high voter turnout at the polls.
What is worthy of mention is that participation in elections is both a right and a religious duty of the Iranian people. The enemies of our nation are also opposed to this participation, and the reason for their opposition is quite clear.
Those who are opposed to our Islamic system and the Islamic identity of our nation, considering them contrary to their interests, are thwarted in their malicious plots and machinations against the Islamic Republic by the wholehearted support expressed by our nation for the Islamic Republic. Otherwise, the enemies have all kinds of weapons of mass destruction and are also characterized by evil qualities such as ill will, brutality and bloodthirstiness. 
What deters the world's bullies and arrogant powers from carrying out their evil objectives against the Islamic system is the Iranian people's massive presence on the scene and also their participation in deciding their political fate. This presence and participation constitutes a strong bulwark against the enemy's aggression and encroachment.
The Iranian people's presence at the polls is more outstanding and more conspicuous than their presence on other scenes of public participation. On Friday, the Iranian citizens by going to the polls will in fact express their support for the Islamic Republic and the inviolable Islamic principles of the constitution. This is not what the enemies of the Iranian nation would like to see. Therefore, they are trying to dilute the Iranian people's participation in the upcoming presidential election. 
Certain attempts have been made by the arrogant powers over the past few months to dilute the Iranian people's participation in the June-17 presidential poll. Despite these attempts and in spite of the negative propaganda being disseminated by the enemies of our nation, it is currently predicted that the majority of the Iranian people will participate in the upcoming presidential election. This is why the enemies of our nation are now deeply embarrassed and disconcerted.
On Friday, the vigilant Iranian people will go to the polls so as to protect their country, preserve their national interests and infuse new life and spirit into their strong and stable Islamic system. Also, by doing so, they will display their national solidarity to the world and foil the plots of the wicked enemies.
I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow His assistance on our nation, guide them on the path that ensures their interests and ordain what is conducive to the dignity and progress of our nation and country. As always, I am greatly hopeful of divine grace and favor.
There are a few points which I would like to mention to the public, especially to the supporters of the esteemed presidential candidates and the officials in charge of holding the upcoming presidential election. The first point is that general elections in themselves are pleasant events for the Iranian people from all social strata. The reason is that the people can exercise their freedom of choice, power of will and right to choose on the scene of elections. They should not allow these pleasant events to turn into bitter incidents. 
The enemies of the Iranian nation are trying to detract from the pleasant taste of general elections in the Islamic Republic. During the past few days, they made certain dastardly attempts and caused a few explosions in some parts of the country with the intention of discouraging the Iranian people from participating in the upcoming presidential election.
We have always been proud of the warm and peaceful atmosphere surrounding the general elections held in our country in post-revolution era. The enemies are trying to destroy this cordial and calm atmosphere.
The Iranian people and the campaign managers of presidential candidates themselves should say a big "No" to the enemies. They should not allow the atmosphere surrounding the election to turn bitter through their agency.
Furthermore, the supporters of different candidates should not get involved in mudslinging and smear campaigns. They may actively support their favorite candidates, but they should not try to tarnish the image of other candidates.
The second point I would like to mention is that certain differences of opinion may emerge in the course of the election and cause annoyance in some individuals. You should not allow this annoyance to linger after the Election Day. Any annoyance and hard feeling related to the election should be buried after the election.
Any candidate who is elected president on Friday is the president of the entire nation, including those who voted for him, those who voted for other candidates and even those who did not go to the polls because they were ill or away on a trip or too busy to do so. Therefore, all the Iranian people should support the elected president.
The third point is that the election of a new president is not a personal issue; it is a public issue. Of the eight presidential candidates standing in the next election, only one will be elected president. Therefore, everybody is expected to cooperate with the elected president and assist him in performing his duties.
What is worthy of mention is that those presidential candidates whose qualifications have been approved by the Guardian Council are entitled to stand in the next election. Therefore, what the Iranian people are expected to do is to find out which candidate is the most competent and most suitable for the office. 
Whoever is elected president by polling the majority of the votes cast by the Iranian people on June 17 will be the president of the Islamic Republic for the next four years. He should be supported by the entire nation, although he may not have been the favorite candidate of all Iranian citizens.
However, it should be pointed out that all Iranian citizens have the right to ask the new president to fulfill their legitimate demands and meet their requirements. This is what I have done in the past and will also do in the future. I have always reminded the presidents of the Islamic Republic of the demands and requirements of our people and our Islamic system.
I am not in the habit of engaging in disputes with government officials in public. However, by the favor of Allah, I have not stopped even for a moment calling on top executive officials who have so far taken office to respect the people's rights and observe the values and principles of our Islamic system. I have always asked them to do so, but to what extent they have succeeded in doing so is a different matter.
The next point is that the people have grown tired of political wrangling and discord among government officials. They are not interested in such matters. They expect the government to take concrete measures to solve their problems. It is true that many constructive and positive measures have been taken in the country, but there still remain many problems that have to be resolved.
The Iranian people expect the government to take effective measures to uproot corruption, counter discrimination, pay special attention to the deprived and underprivileged strata and try to raise their living standards. These measures are among the Islamic duties of government officials, the duties that have been entrusted by the constitution to the officials of the Islamic Republic. 
The practice of engaging in futile political disputes and bickerings and raising empty slogans and ambiguous notions will not result in solving the people's problems. The people expect serious measures to be taken by the government to counter those who create hurdles in the way of the country's progress and development.
Any presidential candidate who is elected president, no matter what he has promised to the nation and what slogan he has raised during his election campaign, should first of all try to solve the problems facing the people. He should choose his colleagues from among those dedicated individuals who are faithful to the people's rights and who believe in the efficiency of the Islamic system, and he should try to serve the people in the best possible manner.
The last point that I would like to mention relates to government officials. The people's votes should be protected. The Interior Ministry officials and the supervisors appointed by the Guardian Council should make every effort to protect the vote of every Iranian citizen. 
Of course we trust our officials, but they should be quite watchful and vigilant, since the people's votes are a divine consignment which has been entrusted to them.
We only seek assistance from Allah, the Almighty, and our reliance is on the deep faith of our nation. We invoke the favor and care of His Holiness Imam of the Age - may our souls be sacrificed for his sake. We know he prays for our nation, and we know our people enjoy divine grace and blessings.
I hope our nation will continue to benefit from divine grace and assistance and the care and prayer of His Holiness Imam of the Age - may Almighty Allah hasten his auspicious reappearance.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
