
<meta year="2005" title="Supreme Leader's Speech in Meeting with Officials of 16th Imam Khomeini Demise Anniversary Ceremony"/>
I thank God for allowing us, another year, to meet with you dear brothers and servants of this great and important program. In the beginning of my speech, I deem it necessary to sincerely thank each and every one of you, particularly Mr. Ansari who really works hard, who appreciates the value of this task and who knows how significant commemorating our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) and keeping alive this very important and sorrowful memory is. We can gain this understanding from the way he and you dear brothers are working.
Our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) was really an exception in our history. He was a tall mountain in the movement of the people of Iran. I am not saying this because of the love and interest that continues to exist in our hearts for him, rather the fair look of any individual confirms this. Imam (r.a.) was really and truly an exceptional individual. We know the historical figures of the country. I am familiar, more or less, with history. This complete personality does not have any peers among our great ulama, the politicians of the country or among the agents of transformation and change in our country. How can great personalities like the late Sayyid Jamal and the advocates of transformation that lived in our country or even in the world of Islam be compared to this multi-dimensional, deep and really indescribable man? We have had great ulama and faqihs whose statements and speeches are available to us. Our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) is one of the best among these personalities. I have read in books the biography of many philosophers, mystics, aqli scholars, politicians, wise old men and knowledgeable personalities and I have encountered some of them in my life. The difference between them and our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) is really vast! Each dimension of this personality is ahead of its peers.
The piety and religiousness of this man and his indifference to the world and its trifles is another issue. Sometimes, a person is not involved at all with the world and with people in his four walls, nor is he subject to any test, yet he is a pious person. And sometimes, a person like Imam (r.a.) stands at the peak of international fame with that magnificence, creates all of this Revolution with his determination and willpower and enjoys such respect among the people - in a way that they are prepared to believe in all the things that he did - but he shows such piety and religiousness. The same is true of his willpower and his firm and iron determination in great tasks.
The more one looks at this vast ocean from different dimensions, the more indescribable one finds it to be. When we take a look at an ocean up close, we find it to have a particular shape, but in the depth of the ocean, we see other worlds. At the beach of an ocean, you see that the ocean contains a certain amount of water and in the beginning, you do not find this amount of water to be very different from a big pool, but when you have to swim to the depth of the ocean, you will see different worlds. The closer you get and the deeper you swim, the newer things you discover. Imam (r.a.) too was really like this.
This exceptional personality does not belong to history only. The descriptions that we provided can have a historical function. In the history of Iran, we had a personality who accomplished a great feat. He stirred the people to move. He helped the Islamic Republic to stand on its feet with his greatness and singularity and he created such a great and solid structure. Very well, now should we put this great personality in the showcase of history like precious things so that we and others look at and praise it? Is our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) like this?
In this sense, if we want to liken Imam (r.a.) to someone, we should liken him to prophets. The existence and identity of prophets are not confined to their lifetime. Their identity is extended throughout history. In other words, after they were gone, their existence should continue through their teachings, religion and path. This is the definition of a great Prophet. Otherwise, prophets lived like other individuals. They lived for 50, 60, 100 years in this world, they made certain achievements and after that, they were gone. Therefore, the issue does not end at this point. If it were like this, there would be no trace of religion and prophetic teachings today. So, the exact opposite is true. Today, all noble human teachings are the products of prophets' thoughts, although indirectly. It was they who let out the cry of justice, morality, attention to God, selflessness and sacrifice for the sake of humans and all other virtues that all the people in the world believe in today - apart from non-nationalists and those who do not follow divine religions, everyone accepts that these virtues are good.
It was they who raised the flag of such virtues. If it had not been for them, the world would have been in the hands of arrogant powers and bullies. Otherwise, why should justice, freedom of thought, brotherhood, self-sacrifice prevail and remain as values forever? These things have been achieved thanks to prophets' teachings. It was they who produced these things and then they were gone. Their lives are not confined to 50, 60 years, rather their lives are all about imbuing these teachings in the course of history with the purpose of guiding humans. Our Imam (r.a.) was like this as well.
When we think deeply, we understand why they have focused their attention on this great personality and why they have been trying to damage Imam's (r.a.) reputation from his demise until today. The purpose of damaging his reputation is wiping away his path and clearing the line that he portrayed. If lovers and followers of Imam (r.a.) speak about him, this is not because they only want to thank and commemorate him or praise one beautiful and outstanding truth about him. The reason is that they want this path to prevail. They want this flag to continue guiding those individuals who want to find their way. All of us should think of Imam (r.a.) like this. All those who were opposed to the path of Islam and the path and principles of Imam tried to consign him to oblivion so that this path would be lost.
Today, the happiness and bliss of our country lies in continuing Imam's (r.a.) path. Today, all the legitimate ideals that our people have can be attained through Imam's (r.a.) line and path. I am saying this based on correct calculations and on abundant, substantial and tangible evidence. If our people want to stand up against the arrogant powers that have appeared in the world - that do not become satisfied with anything other than swallowing nations - if they want to preserve their identity and independence and choose their path of life with their own viewpoints and opinions, they have no option other than getting attached to Imam's (r.a.) line and path. They should apply both his thoughts and methods in their lives and in their actions and thoughts.
His approach was not to surrender to foreigners' model. It was not the case that the enemy would be the one to choose the pitch for the game. It was not the case that he played just like any other player on the pitch. This was not the case. On the contrary, he himself used to choose the pitch, thus surprising the enemy. Imam (r.a.) disrupted the rules of the game that arrogance applies in today's world. The reason why some people came here from the other side of the world to show enmity towards Imam (r.a.) both during his life and after his demise - despite the fact that they did not have any land dispute with us, nor did they have any dispute about normal government interests - was that Imam (r.a.) had aimed at the heart.
Today, if you travel to second-tier countries - for the moment, we have nothing to do with first-tier countries which are powers located in some parts of Asia and Europe - you will see that they formulate their plans according to the wishes of arrogance. If you ask them why they do so, they will answer, "Is there another option?" Today, arrogant powers are powerful and dominant. Today, everyone moves on the basis of the model that they present. However, every person does so with a clever move to safeguard their own interests. Therefore, everyone is playing on the pitch that they have chosen. However, Imam (r.a.) disrupted this rule. He focused and worked on his true goals and he mentioned the name of Islam.
Perhaps, I have said in another meeting with you that I once wanted to participate in an international congress. I had prepared certain things to say and I took it to Imam (r.a.). Usually, when I wanted to deliver a speech somewhere, I gave my notes to Imam (r.a.) so that he would take a look at it. He looked at my notes and after two, three days gave it back to me. He had written some points on the margin. In one of these points, he had asked me to speak about the necessity not to separate religion from politics. At first, I was surprised. Nonetheless, I went and wrote certain things about this matter and then I added it to my speech notes. There were about a hundred countries in that international congress. I read that text there and I found out that that part was the main and the most attractive part for them because it was new and important to them. This was while I thought that the other issues would prove to be more beautiful because the words and the content had been chosen carefully. However, I realized that that part was more important.
That one focuses on the necessity not to separate religion from politics in prominent congresses in the world shows that one has chosen the main issue. There are some people who speak for the enemy: "If they use the words of Shaitan, they have worshipped Shaitan" [Bihar al-Anwar, Vol. 2, page 94]. Some people in our country rant about the separation of religion from politics. For several centuries, the separation of religion from politics was a reality in our country. However, Imam (r.a.) came and turned the tables by letting out this cry in the world.
Today, we should follow what we have chosen as the goals of this Revolution with Imam's (r.a.) approach. We should follow them in an outspoken, courageous and brave manner and by providing complete explanations. We should enter this arena courageously. We should know that this is what helps us to resist enemies and to preserve our independence, freedom and identity. If our people want to build the country, achieve scientific progress and improve in various material challenges in the world - such as the issue of finance, agriculture and other such issues - the way to do so is to follow Imam's (r.a.) line. This is because this line is the line of independence, return to one's identity, excavation of hidden treasures inside humans' heart, and activation of these talents.
I have said many times and would like to repeat that whenever we have had a major achievement, it was because of the religious and hezbollahi forces who believed in this path. Otherwise, those who do not believe in this line and this path - both because of lack of faith and lack of national zeal - do not do what they should do. Such individuals retreat in the face of normal pressures in life and after that, they surrender in the face of temptations and lures presented by the enemy. However, a person who believes in God does not surrender and get tired. This is the path of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.). If we want to build and liberate the world, the way is to follow Imam's (r.a.) line. This is the meaning of reviving Imam's (r.a.) name and holding this glorious flag. So, we do not want to keep his name and memory alive only for the sake of history and for the sake of commemorating that great personality.
In all prayers, you send greetings to Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household (a.s.) and constantly repeat the names of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a) and the Imams (a.s.). Why do you do so? It is because their presence is strongly felt in our personal lives and in our bodies, souls and social environment. The same is true of Imam (r.a.). His presence should be tangibly felt. In other words, we should implement his path, line and thoughts in society in the real sense of the word.
Of course, this does not mean adopting a reactionary attitude. I am not an advocate of reactionary attitude. I am an advocate of novelty and innovation. Novelty exists in methods. It is possible that methods change, but by changing methods, principles do not change and they show themselves clearly. When one sees that principles are lost in a method that comes forward in the name of novelty, one should understand that that method is wrong. It is evident that a tactic that makes us drift away from the strategy is wrong.
During the time of my presidency, I went to a Muslim country that claimed to be fighting against Israel and I met with the head of that country. Previously, he had said that they were willing to meet and establish relations with Israeli politicians. I said to him, "What is this statement that has been ascribed to you? He looked at his deputy and began laughing. I said to myself, "Perhaps, they have an important answer." Then, he said that this was a tactic. I said, "Wow, this is a tactic that makes you drift away from the main goals. The basis of your work was to impose sanctions on Israel. You wanted to act in a way that Israel does not become the common coin in the Arab and Islamic environment. However, as a tactic, you are acting in the exact opposite manner." Sometimes, some people change the main strategy with the pretext that we have changed our tactic and our method. You should take care not to let this happen. Those who act like this are taking a wrong course of action. In any case, we should ask Allah the Exalted to bestow success on us.
As for the issue of elections, what Mr. Ansari pointed out is really true. Elections are an important matter and the manifestation of the freedom of our people: the freedom of thought, of choice and in fact independence of every human being. Sometimes, you see that there are two, three people who live in the same home, one believes in a certain candidate and votes for him and another believes in a different candidate and votes for him. This is a very interesting phenomenon. How can this be compared to different partisan elections in other countries? When you are a member of a specific party, they give you the name of a particular person and say that you should throw it into ballot boxes. Do you know that person? No. Are you aware of his future? No. Will it be to your advantage if he wins? No. Will he attain your ideals? You do not know because you are a member of the party and you should go and vote for him.
Our people do not look to see which party, group and division we belong to. The people should look and choose. This is the right way and this is what we want. What I very much want to happen in elections is that first, the people should have a sense of responsibility, second they should have a feeling that they have the right to choose and they should not relinquish their right, third, they should conduct research in order to choose the best person. Of course, everyone has their own way of researching.
It is possible that some people say that I am their advocate or opponent. This is not the case. After all, I choose one of these candidates on the day of the elections, I write his name and I throw it into the ballot box, but no one will know whom I will vote for until that day. The people should choose and elect on their own.
I hope that Allah the Exalted will always keep His hand of assistance and guidance on the head of our people as Imam (r.a.) said to me in the year 1365, "I see that a powerful hand is moving all affairs of this country forward."
I hope that we will deserve benefiting from this powerful hand, God willing. It is not the case that we think that we are favored by God and that whatever we do, God's hand will be with us. This is not the case because sometimes, this powerful hand will become a fist that strikes one's head! If we do not take care, if we overstep our boundaries and carry out our responsibilities in an inefficient manner or if we do not carry them out at all, this powerful hand will not help us. It might even - God forbid - act against us. Therefore, if we take His path, Allah the Exalted will help us, God willing.
I hope that God will associate the immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) with the prophets and His saints. I hope that God will raise the position of his dear children - in particular, the late Hajj Sayyid Ahmad Aqa. I hope that He will associate our dear martyrs, who are Imam's (r.a.) neighbors [in the hereafter], with the martyrs of the early Islamic era.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

