
<meta year="2005" title="Leader's Speech to the IRGC Ground Forces Servicemen"/>
Allah, the Almighty, has bestowed every blessing on the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC), which functions as the strong arm of the Iranian nation. Following its formation, the IRGC was characterized by strong motivation to render sincere services to the nation. Today also the IRGC, endowed with great spiritual blessings and divine guidance and assistance, is continuing with its valuable services to the Islamic Republic.
A military force should be mainly characterized by deep faith, strong determination, high morale and defense and combat preparedness. Faith, motivation and high morale along with training, organization, discipline and equipment are like two wings for a military force. Thank God, today we can see that the IRGC is provided with these two wings.
Brave and competent individuals are precious assets to any nation, since they act as strong fortifications of a nation in various confrontations. There have always been countries with domineering and expansionist goals in the world, waging wars against other nations with the aim of plundering their resources and annexing their territories. This practice has never stopped in the course of the history of mankind. Such threats also exist today.
Only a nation and country whose men and youngsters are characterized by valor, deep faith and high morale will be able to stand up to the bullying and hegemony of the aggressive powers and protect its identity, honor and independence. These qualities are the most important features of a military force. You should preserve and further strengthen these characteristics.
Today, expansionist powers like former aggressors in the course of history are ready to trample on the interests and rights of other nations in order to promote their own interests. What can hinder these covetous powers is not submission and surrender. Weakness would not deter an expansionist power that aims to dominate other nations by force. A nation can defend itself in the face of aggressors only through power, strong determination and preparedness. Today, it is the duty of our armed forces to further strengthen such qualities in themselves.
The world is presently witnessing remarkable achievements in different fields, including in the area of military arms and equipment, but still the pivot of any victory or defeat is man himself.
It is true that material equipment and capabilities play an important role, but the decisive role is still played by the deep faith and strong determination of a military force. This is what the arrogant powers do not have. This is what infuses nations with the hopes of achieving victory, even victory over the powers that are armed to the teeth.
Shortcomings, mistakes, lack of preparedness, evading responsibilities and lack of readiness to endure hardships are the major factors causing the weakness and decline of nations and destroying their identity, history, culture and future prospects.
Today, bullying powers are disregarding the identity and historical background of weak nations and trying to destroy their future prospects. Therefore, other nations should try to become powerful. According to Islam and the teachings of all divine prophets, power is not meant for aggression and encroachment, but it is intended to defend justice and righteousness.
The IRGC personnel should try to preserve the identity of their military force, which is characterized by deep faith, strong determination, devotion and sincerity. Just as the IRGC has so far managed to combine modern military organization, order and discipline with spiritual and moral values and provide training and advanced equipment for its personnel, so in the future also it should increase its efforts in this direction.
Modern military organization would not be so effective without certain decisive factors such as faith, devotion and awareness. Such features should be infused into a military organization, which should also be characterized by defense and combat readiness and appropriate use and maintenance of military equipment.
You should always be prepared. There may be no aggression against our nation and country for many years ahead. Our enemies may not dare to approach the perimeter of our homeland because of the state of preparedness of our nation and valor and devotion of our faithful youth. But this should not cause any weakening of your preparedness. The verses of the holy Qur'an teach us to be always prepared:

"And prepare against them what force you can,..." (8: 60)
The Iranian nation should use whatever capability and potential it has to increase its preparedness against any likely encroachment and aggression by the domineering and expansionist powers.
The IRGC is composed of faithful and devoted commanders and young brave personnel, who have made great sacrifices in the post-revolution era. Thousands of IRGC servicemen achieved martyrdom in the course of the Sacred Defense. What they handed down to the present generation is deep faith, strong devotion and determination as well as victory.
They were martyred, but your country repelled the enemy's aggression and remained free and independent. The Islamic Republic has since made considerable progress and taken great strides on the path to development. By the favor of Allah, it will continue with its progress and development in the years ahead.
We are grateful to the Almighty that the blood of our honorable martyrs bore fruit and was not wasted. Through their self-sacrifice, our martyrs brought honor and dignity to our nation and opened the way to progress and development for our country.
I hope you will remain in the vanguard of the campaign to attain spiritual, material and political power and to protect our identity. I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow His grace and favor on you all. I also invoke the prayer of His Holiness Baqiyatollah-ul-A'zam (what remains with Allah on earth, Imam of the Age) for all of you.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
