
<meta year="2005" title="Leader's Speech to Residents of Qom Province"/>
First, I would like to welcome all of you, the dear brothers and sisters who with firm intentions and strong motivations stemming from a deep belief have taken the trouble to attend this gathering, a gathering characterized by sincerity and enthusiasm which has been held on the anniversary of the event that took place on January 8, 1978. The day marks a crucial stage in the political history of our nation.
If one analyzes this event with insight, he will notice that it was a landmark in the political life of the Iranian people. The authors of this event were the residents of Qom, including the zealous youth and the devoted residents of the city and the theological schools, which played an important role on that day and afterwards.
What gave rise to the event was that the Iranian people had become fed up with the dictatorial rule of the puppet Pahlavi regime, on the one hand, and the straitened circumstances in which they lived, the corrupt imposed culture as well as foreign domination, especially the influence exerted by the United States, on the other hand. The public anger had its roots in the religious belief of the Iranian nation. It was not blind anger, since the Iranian people, thanks to the Islamic teachings, knew what they wanted and pursued a clearly defined objective with awareness.
The adherence of young theology students and revered ulema to the unique leadership of our magnanimous Imam for so many years had infused the Iranian people with the awareness that the country's situation was a cause of humiliation and disgrace to the Iranian nation, and that the situation could be changed, but only by the people themselves.
The Iranian people had understood this fact very well, and the public anger was spreading nationwide. However, like all other events, an initial stage, a starter, was necessary. A champion had to enter the scene and start the initial stage. The starters were the residents of Qom and the theological schools. The significance of the matter lies in the fact that the public motivation stemmed from Islam, their goals and objectives were defined by religious faith and their reliance was on divine assistance as well as on national solidarity.
This combination was the motive force of the Iranian people both in the event that took place on January 8, 1978, and the later events that followed as a result. The January-8 event gave rise to a nationwide storm, the storm in which the annihilation of evil forces and those opposed to righteousness had been destined.
"And certainly We wrote in the Book after the Reminder that (as for) the land, My righteous servants shall inherit it." (21:105)
This is a divine promise. As long as the people do not stand up for righteousness and justice, it will not materialize in real life. However, when motivated by faith, the people become mobilized to accomplish this objective; then righteousness and justice will be established on earth, and it did in the case of the Iranian nation.
The reason that in the course of the long history of the Muslim Ummah, the righteousness has been wronged is because the people never tried to hoist its banner and administer justice in society. Consequently, the end result has been what you can observe.
However, the Iranian people observed the divine law, namely they entered the scene and raised the flag of virtue and righteousness. As a result, victory was bestowed on them by Almighty Allah, as promised in the holy Qur'an.
The movement began from Qom. You should attach great significance to this day, as it marks a crucial stage in our history. Efforts should also be made to disseminate and preserve the values that originated from this event.
The Iranian people entered the scene of struggle. They put an end to the dictatorial rule in their country, which was dependent on the outside powers. They drove the plundering enemy out of their country. They also did away with the imposed alien culture and the deviant cultural system that dominated their society and established their own native culture and values to the extent that they could. The tyrant was deposed and was replaced by an authority depending on the people and emanating from their religion. Divine blessings were bestowed on the Iranian nation, as promised by Almighty Allah.
"And if the people of the towns had believed and guarded (against evil) We would certainly have opened up for them blessings from the heaven and the earth;..." (7: 96) 
Allah, the Almighty, has promised that if nations are characterized by faith and piety, they will enjoy divine mercy and blessings. This is what happened with regard to the Iranian nation.
Today, our country is much more developed, including both material advancement and moral and spiritual growth, than it was under the former regime. In those days, the Untied States had absolute control over our country's affairs, including political, economic and social affairs. Besides, our policies were made in such a way as to serve the interests of the alien powers. The Iranian people had no role in choosing their senior officials. No serious measures were taken by the former regime to promote science and technology; as a result, the country was in a state of backwardness, and the Iranian nation was dependent on other countries even for its basic necessities.
However, thanks to the Islamic Revolution, the Iranian nation took a great stride forward. Under the former regime, we had a population of 35 or 40 million, and the number of our students comprised only a small percentage of our population. Today, our population has increased twofold, but the number of our students has increased by 15 times, and the number of our university instructors and centers of higher education has grown by a greater proportion.
Today, our talented young people have attained the most sophisticated technology. In the former days, if a dam had to be built on a river, they had to beg certain countries and pay them huge amounts of money so that they may construct the dam in this country. Still, the structure of the dam was at times no so reliable. But nowadays our young scientists, engineers and technicians are building a large number of dams in this country.
Today, we are not only witnessing scientific, economic and technological development in our country, but moral and spiritual values have also been greatly promoted in our society. Our nation is much more self-confident than it was in the past. Above all, our country has achieved independence as a result of the struggle and self-sacrifice of our nation. Indeed, all the commotion and uproar that is being raised by certain countries against our nation is because of our independence.
Every country in the world should know that the Iranian nation would not allow the United States to once again exert its influence on this country. After the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the United States, a plundering regime, began to show hostilities toward our nation. Such animosities, which are still continuing and will also exist in the future, have so far proved ineffective. By the power of the Almighty, they will be futile in the future as well.
The analysts and strategists affiliated to the arrogant powers think that the same events that took place in the course of our revolution, during which our nation brought about a great change in the political system of our country, can once again take place in line with the diabolical goals of the arrogant powers. They have been clutching at straws to give rise to such events.
Over the past 10 or 15 years, the U.S. and Zionist spies and other agents of the global arrogance have been trying to incite and instigate the Iranian people, or at least a part of the population, to give rise to events similar to those that took place in the course of our revolution. These morons do not understand that our revolution stemmed from the faith of our nation and relied on the heart of every single Iranian. It was not imposed, nor was it procured by money.
What they are vainly trying to bring about in Iran may only happen in the United States itself and in its satellite regimes. A firmly established system that relies on the faith and hearts of the people will not be shaken by such dastardly attempts. Despite this, the Iranian nation should remain vigilant in the face of plots and machinations.
My dear ones! What I would like to emphasize is that, during the past 25 years, divine will and power manifested itself in the vigilance, unity and timely presence of the Iranian people. What preserved our revolution and country was the strong faith of our youngsters and the religious zeal and fervor of our devoted men and women. The same also holds true today. We believe righteousness will ultimately prevail against evil. There is no doubt about it. But there is one condition: the people, especially the youngsters, should always remain on the scene and keep vigilant.
You can see how much suffering is being inflicted on nations by the bloody claws of the global arrogance. The world is still suffering from colonialism, which is now applying modern methods. In the past, colonial powers used to dominate other nations directly. However, with the awareness and awakening of nations, the era of old colonialism came to an end. But it was replaced by neocolonialism.
In the neocolonial era, world powers did not try to directly rule other countries; for instance, unlike the old colonial era, Britain did not install a British ruler in India in the neocolonial era. Instead, the colonial states brought their agents to power in the countries under their influence. This is what they did with regard to the former regime in Iran, when they brought Reza Khan and his son to power, and in many other countries in the Third World, including Islamic countries.
For many years, the colonial countries oppressed other nations, brought dictators and military regimes to power and prevented national participation through whatever means possible. Today, they see that this method is no longer effective. Thus, they have found a new way of dominating other countries, i.e. dominating them by influencing their nations. This new method is what I recently referred to as postmodern colonialism.
In the present postmodern colonial era, the arrogant powers are trying to influence other nations with the help of their agents, by spending money and through propaganda tactics and colorful enticements. They are also trying to whitewash the world's oppressors and their dark records.
These attempts will also prove futile, since the face of the arrogant and oppressive powers is too ugly to be whitewashed. They will not be able to hide their oppressive and savage nature. What is happening in Iraq provides an example. You can see what these arrogant powers are doing in Iraq. Today, the flag of human rights in the hands of the United States, Britain and the like has turned into a ridiculous and funny plaything.
The brutal treatment of prisoners at the AbuGhuraib prison in Iraq and at the Guantanamo prison in the United States and other maltreatments of innocent people by U.S. and British soldiers are the talk of the town everywhere in the world. Today, the hearts of Muslim nations are filled with hatred for the United States and other arrogant powers.
Even in those countries whose rulers are under the influence of the arrogant powers, their nations are fed up with this influence and are waiting for a proper time to put an end to it. The time when the arrogant powers did everything they wished to other nations is over now. Of course some nations may be experiencing certain hardships, but they will not take bullying or yield to intimidation any longer.
Any nation that is vigilant, determined and faithful will be able to protect its independence and national sovereignty. Such features characterize the Iranian nation. Our people are talented, intelligent, faithful and experienced. Few nations have the experience of our nation. Thus, the Iranian people can form the pivot of a great world movement against oppression and against a new dictatorial system that the arrogant powers aim to establish in the world. These powers intend to impose their will on other nations under this new system. This is something our young people should pay special attention to. They should increase their preparation and keep their presence on the scene.
Our young theology students and ulema, university students, workers and youngsters from other walks of life should bear in mind that they should play their part in the future of the world. The political geography of the world in the future will be determined by the faith and determination of nations. This is your responsibility. The country's officials, including cultural, political and educational officials and others dealing with the affairs related to the youth, also shoulder heavy responsibilities in this respect. The reason why I place so much emphasis on scientific progress is because advancement in the field of science and technology will play a significant role in the future of the world.
The future belongs to the young people, who will see the days of dignity and real glory of nations and witness the results of the present perseverance and endeavors. Thank God, there is unity and solidarity in our nation, and our people are characterized by faith, enthusiasm, vigilance and awareness. Of course the enemies will not stop making attempts to dishearten the Iranian people and slow down their progress.
At the time of nationwide elections, in which our people participate enthusiastically and with strong motivations, the enemies launch a negative propaganda campaign to discourage our nation and urge them to boycott the elections. The main goal of the enemies is to keep our people away from the scene and remove them from the political equations of our country, thus depriving them of their right to choose.
Those behind these machinations are U.S. and Zionist policy-making circles and strategists. Some ignorant individuals may be influenced by the negative propaganda of the enemies, which is aimed at inculcating the wrong belief that the elections in Iran are not fair and free. They may also try to tarnish the image of the candidates that intend to run in the elections. All these attempts are aimed at undermining the elections and public participation in our country.
The next presidential elections in our country are not far ahead. I would like to ask all the relevant officials and the Iranian people to get prepared for the upcoming elections. The people should realize the significance of their voting in the next elections. Through their votes, they will bring a government to power that is expected to take effective measures to solve the people's problems and accomplish the ideals of the nation.
Those candidates who intend to run in the next elections should also pay due attention to the fact that, if elected, they will be expected by the people to work hard to solve the existing problems and help the country make further progress in different fields. In other words, what the people expect is that the next president of the Islamic Republic should be greatly motivated to serve the nation in the best possible manner in various economic, cultural, scientific and infrastructural areas as well as in the field of foreign policy and also try to promote moral values in society. This expectation will only be realized through deep faith and determination.
The presidential candidates should present their future plans, goals and strategies to the people and elaborate on what they intend to do for the nation if elected to the office of president. This will create public enthusiasm and eagerness to vote in the next elections and result in a massive turnout at the polling stations.
The people, for their part, should consider which candidate is the most competent and the most suitable for the office, is the most devoted to the ideals of the nation and has the greatest ability to achieve their goals. God willing, during the coming months before the elections, I will discuss more details about the elections with the Iranian people.
What everybody should bear in mind is that our nation expects more efforts to be made to accomplish the lofty objectives and ideals for which the Iranian people launched their Islamic Revolution, defended their homeland, persevered in different arenas and, as a result, attained intellectual growth and scientific progress.
Of course it is quite evident that the Iranian nation is enjoying divine assistance and is backed by the power of the Almighty. This is what I have clearly seen. Once, our late Imam was in bed due to an illness and I had gone to visit him. I remember that I said something to our late Imam. In response, he told me that what he had realized in the course of the years after the revolution was that the power of the Almighty was supporting the Iranian nation and helping the affairs to proceed.
I have seen the power of the Almighty in the past years. The enemies have hatched so many plots and machinations against our nation! They have spent so much money to keep the Iranian people backward, to encroach on our territories and dominate our nation. However, because of the strong will of our nation, which is backed by the power of the Almighty, our enemies have been foiled in their plots and intrigues. God willing, their schemes will be thwarted in the future as well.
We seek assistance and guidance from Almighty Allah, express our greetings to His Holiness Vali-ye-Asr (Imam of the Age), may our souls be sacrificed for his sake, and invoke his prayer and favor on all of you, the dear guests who are present here, and the entire Iranian nation.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
