
<meta year="2006" title="Leader's Statements at the Graduation and Oath-Taking Ceremony of Army Cadets"/>
Today, you, the dear youngsters, have officially joined the great and honorable family of the Islamic Republic of Iran's Army. You are quite welcome! 
The day is an auspicious and unforgettable day for you, as you have received your epaulets today, and this marks the beginning of your striving in the way of Allah.
A man's will decides the path that he takes in life, and his firm determination enables him to constantly and incessantly tread that path, and again this same will and firmness of purpose helps him accomplish his ideals and objectives.
It is quite clear that the jobs that we have chosen are not our objective in life, but that they are the means that help us attain our ideal. This ideal is to become a perfect human being, the one portrayed and recommended by our religion: a human being that uses the opportunity provided by his presence in this material world as well as his power and capabilities and talents to accomplish his transcendental flight and reach the point that great men and pious and dedicated servants of Allah aspire for.
What is important is that we take the right path. I assure you, the dear youngsters, that you have taken the right path. The Islamic Republic of Iran's Army is capable of helping determined and resolute individuals accomplish their transcendental flight and celestial ascension. This ascension is not accomplished merely through martyrdom. Many of those who are alive enjoy the status of martyrs.
The Islamic Republic of Iran's Army and the armed forces under the sacred system of the Islamic Republic are in the vanguard of a movement which the Muslim Ummah is today looking forward to.
There is a suitable ground for your progress and the fulfillment of your potential. What is important is that you always preserve your strong will and determination which is backed up by the strength associated with your youth and which is assisted by the favorable atmosphere existing under the Islamic Republic.
Make every effort to study well. Learn the courses well and also apply them well. Shine brightly when there is a need for you to do so.
I hope that Almighty Allah will confer on all of you the success in performing your duties in an appropriate manner.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
