
<meta year="2006" title="Leader's Address at the Graduation and Oath-Taking Ceremony of IRGC Cadets"/>
I express my congratulations to all the Basijis and the Iranian nation on the advent of the auspicious Basij Week. I congratulate you, the dear youngsters, on your graduation and the beginning of your sacred career as members of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC). I also express my congratulations to the IRGC on the establishment of this remarkable organization.
From an Islamic viewpoint, the military service which we consider as a sacred task is quite different from militarism that forms the cornerstone of material schools of thought. The global powerbrokers see militarism as a tool for satiating their thirst for more power and influence. However, this strong desire would never be satiated.
In the course of the history of mankind, the tragedies caused by those wielding wealth and power have mostly been inspired by this kind of attitude toward militarism. But Islam holds a quite different attitude toward the issue of military power, which Muslims are recommended to wield in order to defend the rights of the oppressed nations and so as to administer justice and equity.
All members of the Islamic Ummah are expected to prepare themselves to defend truth and justice, protect their rights against the aggressors and ensure their security, honor and dignity. Nevertheless, some determined and resolute members of the nation are the ones who wear the sacred military uniform, and they are in the vanguard of the national force to defend their homeland and national security. This is the meaning of military service from the Islamic viewpoint.
When a youngster enters this arena of honor with firm determination, whatever he does in this arena is as worthy as the acts of prayer. Today, you, the dear youngsters, are preparing yourselves so that your organization may act as a strong fortification for our nation and country and for the noble values of this great nation.
The Islamic Revolution Guards Corps is proud of the fact that it came into existence based on the Islamic values. The continuity of this sacred organization depends on dedicated and determined servicemen who will be able to defend the nation in conformity with revolutionary values in the post-Sacred Defense era. 
You, the dear youngsters, are continuing to tread the path of those valorous personalities through whose jihad and perseverance and resistance as well as their initiative our country went through one of its most crucial historical stages with success and honor. 
Try to boost your ties with and reliance on Almighty Allah, since these ties will infuse you with power in the most difficult arenas; reliance on and trust in the Almighty will imbue one with dignity, self-confidence and courage. Also try to raise the level of your training and preparedness.
Let the Iranian nation continue to experience security and peace of mind through the presence of dedicated and faithful youngsters in the armed forces; let our people feel that a strong fortification ensures their security. 
The enemies will reconsider their covetous attitude toward our country when they notice the preparedness of our armed forces. The root of this covetous attitude is, for the most part, the assumption that other nations are weak. You are the manifestation of the power, strong will and firm determination of the Iranian nation.
I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow success on you all. I hope that the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps will continue to enjoy divine grace and blessings, and that you will continue to ensure security and peace of mind for the Iranian people and safeguard the values of the Islamic Revolution.
I also hope that the sacred souls of martyrs and the immaculate soul of Imam Khomeini will be pleased with you all, and that you will benefit from the prayer of His Holiness Imam of the Age - may Almighty Allah hasten his reappearance.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
