
<meta year="2006" title="Leader's Speech to People of Garmsar"/>
I thank Allah the Exalted who - after many years - bestowed upon me the blessing to have this warm and exciting meeting with you dear people of Garmsar. Of course, I acknowledge that I should have met the people of Garmsar sooner than this because you are Tehran's neighbors and I have always wanted to come, especially to Garmsar and meet the dear people of this city. Anyway, this opportunity is provided for me today.
Thankfully, in this province Garmsar is among the cities which have high standards. It has fervent and enthusiastic people, it enjoys a high level of literacy in the entire area and it has talented people. I have seen this talent in a number of prominent elites of our country. Both before this trip and during this trip, I met a number of prominent elites of the country, who are from Garmsar. 

This area has been known for its background in knowledge and for its literacy and diligence. For the youth of this area, these should be the standard for hope, diligence and progress. The dear youth of this city can think of their future - in which they will spend much of their lives - as one in which they play a role and in which they can make a significant contribution towards building their dear country. 
Today, at the end of this trip to Semnan province, I would like to have a brief discussion about the general conditions of our dear country.
You fervent and enthusiastic people - particularly you young people who care about the fate of your country and who would like to have a role in the future of the country - should know that thankfully, compared to previous years, our dear country is witnessing one of the best situations that it has ever had at this juncture. Today, the political system of the country is stronger than ever. Those who have been after undermining and destroying the political stability of the country since the beginning of the Revolution, see today that our country enjoys a complete political stability. 
All the people - people from different parts of the country and from different social backgrounds - follow up issues of the country in an organized and manner, in a way that is worthy of a great nation. The people express their slogans and national ideals with complete understanding such as the slogans which you shouted today. Everywhere, the people shout slogans about scientific advances, nuclear energy and the political position of the country at an international level. And today the discourse of justice, anti-discrimination and combating corruption dominates the country more than the past.
The young generation of the Revolution - as they say, the third generation of the Revolution - are talented and they appreciate the efforts of the previous generations. The youth whom we see on the scene are oriented towards revolutionary principles, ideals and motives in all the arenas - young boys and girls are oriented towards studying and pursuing knowledge at different levels. When a nation benefits from such a number of youth at such an age, it should be hopeful. A new, fresh and hopeful generation always provides a nation and a country with the opportunity to build the future - the way this nation deserves - with its innovations. We have such a condition today. The majority of our people are young and they are the kind of young people who have not fallen into the trap of problems and vices which the young people throughout the world have fallen into. I do not accept the opinion of some pessimists who make different kinds of accusations against our young generation. I do not find these accusations realistic. Rather, I find them pessimistic. There is a world of difference between today's youth in Iran, and the youth before the victory of the Islamic Revolution or today's youth in regional countries and many countries in the world - the ones which we are aware of. There are firm religious beliefs in the hearts and souls of our youth. Few very young people in our country are indifferent towards our values. I know this for a fact and I pointed it out during Eid ul-Fitr prayers.
Certain youth from different social backgrounds and with different appearances had participated in this year's ehya [keeping vigil] ceremonies - which were held in the month of Ramadan - and in different ceremonies for dua and supplication. If a shallow person would see one of the boys or girls in - let us say - certain unusual clothes, he would think that they do not know God at all. But this is not the case. The hearts of our youth seek truth. Their hearts are smooth and enlightened. I do not remember at all that over the past years - during my youth or teenage years - the people ever went to mosques in the entire country or Goharshad Mosque in order to participate in itikaf ceremonies which were held in the month of Ramadan. During Ayam ul-Beiz [white days], three days in the months of Rajab and Sha'ban, we used to see few people in Qom who engaged in itikaf and these people were clerics. It was not common for other people to do so. Today, during itikaf days, universities, mosques in the entire country and jameh mosques are full of people who engage in itikaf. What kind of people? Old men? Old women? No, the youth and the youngest people. This is unprecedented in the world. This is our young generation today. Today, the majority of the people in our society are oriented towards religion and revolutionary values.
Fortunately, a popular administration which is committed to religious values is in charge. The President himself is making a lot of efforts by adopting a simple lifestyle which is similar to the lifestyle of the people, developing a deep attachment to Islamic values and showing courage and self-confidence. Different parts of the administration and the President himself, who are determined to render services to the people, are busy working. Moreover, they have taken the initiative both in internal and international issues. Today, it is not the case any longer that our officials have to run errands for global politicians and decision-makers. Our officials have the initiative. The officials' self-confidence, faith and reliance on God have such an effect and today, thankfully they have these qualities. The President is diligent, innovative, present on the scene and indefatigable and he likes to render services to the people and he is a man of action. This will broaden horizons. Today, our political system is in such a situation. We have a stable system and religious people. We have fervent, energetic and enthusiastic youth and we have sympathetic, fervent and courageous officials who have taken the initiative. 
Regarding different standards in our country, we can see signs of progress everywhere. The report that the honorable President presented to the people about the situation of the country, economic issues and other issues a few weeks ago, has been confirmed by impartial experts. And even many items in that report have been confirmed by international centers which often express their opinions about our issues with ulterior motives and with a feeling of hostility. They confirmed many items such as the issue of inflation, the rate of unemployment and the issue of combating corruption. They have ulterior motives. In many cases, we can see that the statistics they release are not based on scientific research and they are not based on reality. These statistics are in fact political. They would like to make our situation look bad. But even these centers acknowledged and stressed that many items in the report are factually correct.
Today, thankfully the general public, particularly underprivileged people, are hopeful. This hope has not grown because the problems have been solved. The problems may last for years. Sometimes carrying out great tasks requires the passage of one or two presidential terms until it can be achieved. Nevertheless, the people are hopeful and happy. Why? Because they feel that certain efforts are being made and they are focused on prohibiting discrimination and helping the underprivileged people make progress. This gladdens the hearts of the people. I have always stressed - over the past years - that administrations and the officials should do something which makes the people understand and accept that they are working and are moving towards achieving the goals. Our people are great people. 
I have read history to a great extent. I am familiar with different issues of other countries and nations. Many nations do not have the nobility, the patience, the realistic attitude and the eagerness for cooperation that our people have. Many nations do not have the wisdom and vigilance which our people have. Our people should have the feeling that the officials of the country want to render services to them and they need to know that they are not sitting idle and they do not want anything for themselves. The reason we stress so much that the officials should have simple lifestyles is to show the people that they are not thinking of accumulating wealth for themselves. This will make the people hopeful and it will win their trust. There is a lot of difference between an official who only thinks of building a financial future for himself during his short term in office - such people scrabble around and claw at this or that, trying to build a financial future for themselves - and a person who thinks of everything except for personal interests during his term. These are radically different.
In today's world, one of the primary goals of whoever holds a managerial position or a ministerial post is to somehow - apparently by legal means - secure their own future so that when their term is over, they could have a share in such and such a company and in such and such an important investment. In the Islamic Republic, we would like our officials to avoid being like this. Fortunately, you can see that today, the officials of the country and the President himself, the head of them, are spending all their time - in the real sense of the word - rendering services to the people.
Our international power has developed. Today, everyone throughout the world is aware of the fact that Iran has stood firm over the issue of nuclear energy - it is one of Iran's issues, not the only one - which is its natural right. This international power will in turn raise the people's spirits. Scientific, industrial and technological growth in our country has provided good opportunities for solving the problems. The main issue is the issue of employment which is the goal of the officials of the country. They are trying hard to solve this problem - which has caused trouble for the people since years ago - in the best possible way and in a period of time that is appropriate for solving the problem.
One of the requirements is the issue of combating corruption. Financial corruption and bureaucratic corruption are among the worst problems. These are among the items which were confirmed by international centers. They confirmed that Iran's rank in terms of combating corruption has improved and there have been certain achievements in this regard. Of course, we do not think that this is enough. Bureaucratic and financial corruption and abuse of national trust should be rooted out. This has nothing to do with healthy investments. We recommend that the investors in our country - those who can make investments - enter the arena of investing and engage in these activities by observing the law. Some people confuse these two things. We are against corruption, abuse of power and trust - which might be committed by officials in different parts of the government. We believe that these things should be fought against. This fight is serious and it has already started. It should be developed and it should become widespread. 
Today, the people's unity in political arenas is more tangible than ever. A number of people used to shout slogans which were only good for separating the people from one another and they did not think that this is enough. They used to shout the slogan of dual government. That is to say, they wanted to create a rift among government officials and managers of the country and they wanted to pitch them against one another. They used to openly shout this slogan and they were not ashamed of it. Thankfully, they became isolated. Today, unity among the managers of the country is a great blessing. The people's hearts are close to one another and the unity between the people and the government is very good. 
There are certain propaganda efforts. Some time ago, the honorable President complained that the press insult and slander certain people and they engage in mudslinging. A number of newspapers made an objection. I usually read newspapers and I believe the President is right. I believe that what a number of newspapers - I am not saying all of them - say is not criticism. It is alright to criticize, but what they say is unfair comments. They use propaganda tools which are common throughout the world, to question or play down what has been done by the government for the good of the people. If there is a weakness - even if it is small - they magnify that weakness. You can see this in many newspapers. It is alright. This situation exists, but our people are wise and vigilant.
I have been warning the people since years ago [about the enemy] and I explained to them the role of foreigners in the cultural management of the country and in our media outlets. Some people refused to accept this. But finally, everybody accepted. Our enemies are not sitting idle. They use the press and they use different propaganda tools to make our people despise the values which they are committed to and which the enemies do not like. They are making their best efforts. We have also shown in practice that the press are free. There are certain things which, in our opinion, are very negative, but the press are doing these things. This refutes the idea promoted by some people that there is no freedom of speech. The existence of the press who freely write whatever they want against the government, the Islamic Republic and general policies proves that there is freedom of speech. No one prevents them from doing so. Of course, the people do not pay a lot of attention to these people. This is the divine blessing.
Thankfully, the political standing of the country and the social standing of the Iranian nation have improved in the world. In the past, the enemies imagined that they have prepared - or will prepare - the ground to rock our country with one move. It was the Americans who said this. A few years ago, a number of American politicians secretly came to Iran - we did not know that, but when they returned to their country, we found out - and held a number of meetings with people who were not on good terms with the Islamic Republic. When they returned, they said that there are certain people in Iran who are waiting for one signal from us to open fire on the Islamic Republic. Today, the truth has dawned on them. Not only can they not achieve domination, but also they cannot inflict damage. Our nation is vigilant and unified. Our hearts are close to one another. Our people trust their officials. They know what the officials are doing and what they are saying. They know that what they say is not for the sake of personal interests, power, and gold. They approach the needs and interests of the country with open-mindedness and the people are aware of that.
Thankfully, today our position is a strong position. On the contrary, our enemies are in a vulnerable position. I said yesterday and the day before yesterday that today America is not the same America that it used to be 10 years, 15 years ago. Today, the Zionist regime is not the regime that it used to be a few years ago. This regime received a hard slap in the face.
Of course, they will not stop showing hostility and putting up an opposition against us. That is alright. This is a divine trick which has been played on them so that it becomes clear how phony and hollow the power of superpowers is.
Today, the world of politics has changed. A number of governments are formed in places which the Americans considered as their own backyard in the past. Governments come to power who are against America. Although the regime of the United States is doing its best to prevent these governments from coming to power, it fails to succeed. This shows that there has been a major development in the world of politics.
Dear people of Iran, dear people of Garmsar, Allah the Exalted has solemnly promised that "Those who say: Our Lord is Allah, then continue in the right way, the angels descend upon them, saying: Fear not, nor be grieved" [The Holy Quran, 41: 30]. As a result of putting up a resistance, Allah the Exalted will take away fear and worry from the individual and the society and He will bestow success on them. The path that we have chosen is the path of God. The path of God does not mean that we should only worship God and pray in seclusion. The path of God means helping the human community achieve happiness. Our people chose this path. That is to say, they chose the path of justice, the path of divine worship, the path of equality of human beings, the path of brotherhood and the path of moral behavior and human virtues. And they have persisted in this path. They have bravely faced the hardships and they have not been intimidated by them. Allah the Exalted will help them enjoy the sweet and delightful fruits of this resistance.
Different officials of the country are very sensitive about the issues of this province. All the points which were raised by the honorable Friday prayer leader are mentioned in the reports which have been given to me before this trip and the executive officials are going to take care of them. Good decisions have been made. Of course, the purpose of my trips is not to increase pressures on the government regarding their responsibilities. These are the tasks which are already on the government's agenda. I will make certain recommendations and by Allah's favor, the process will be facilitated and the areas which escaped their attention will be taken care of. All the officials - the officials of this province, the officials of this city, MPs of the Majlis and high-ranking officials who are in Tehran - should focus their efforts on these areas in an organized way and they should solve the problems and remove the obstacles one after the other. I hope that Allah the Exalted will bestow material and spiritual blessings on you dear people.
Dear God, bestow Your special blessings on the people of Garmsar and these enthusiastic and religious men, women, old and young people. Dear God, guide the youth onto the right path and the path of growth and resistance. Dear God, increase the blessings of these good and religious people and promote their welfare. Dear God, make the honorable officials more successful in rendering services to these people on a daily basis. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

