
<meta year="2001" title="Leader's Statements in a Meeting with Visiting Egyptian Delegation"/>
Ayatollah Khamenei further stated:
"We are very fond of Egypt, its nation and its ulema and have respect for its rich culture. We also highly value the deep love of Egyptians for the Household of the Holy Prophet (peace and greetings be upon them) and believe that Egypt is one of the major bases of Islam."
Elsewhere in his remarks, Leader of the Islamic Republic noted:
"The ulema of the two countries share similar views on many issues. The issue of unity among Muslim umma is a noble and holy aspiration, and surely Muslims throughout the world are yearning for this unity. However, achieving this noble objective requires some prerequisites. Besides, there are also certain obstacles to this unity.
"Today, some hands are at work in the world in order to foment discord among Muslim nations. They try to instigate political disputes, ethnic, sectarian or tribal strife or even military conflicts among Muslim nations and Islamic countries. Those trying to do this are not ordinary people but are those with great influence over political and financial centers. Therefore, efforts to foster unity among Muslim umma should also be aimed at counteracting attempts at creating divisions and conflicts among Islamic countries."
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say:
"Today, the Zionist entity, an enemy that has been implanted in the heart of the Islamic world, is making every effort to undermine unity among Islamic countries. Besides, all vigilant and devoted Muslims are deeply affected by the Zionist regime's occupation of Palestinian lands and its crimes and atrocities against innocent Palestinian people. I am sure in your country, like in our country, the people are saddened by the plight of the Palestinians.
"One of the main factors that can promote unity among Muslim nations is adopting a common stance on the issue of Palestine. In other words, Islamic countries should reach the consensus that the occupier Zionist regime is an illegitimate entity, and that they should form a united front against this occupier and aggressor regime. Therefore, achieving this unity is possible only through concrete measures, not mere words."
As regards the role that can be played by Muslim intellectuals and ulema in promoting unity among Islamic countries and forming a united front against the Zionist regime, the Leader stated:
"Muslim intellectuals and ulema can play an effective role in fostering Islamic unity and adopting a common stance on the issue of Palestine. I have been informed that Egyptian ulema have taken positive steps toward countering Zionism over the past few years. But it is also the duty of the ulema to enlighten the general public and make them aware of the fact that they are all responsible concerning the issue of Palestine. 
"In other words, the Muslim people should realize that it is their Islamic duty to support the Palestinians whose lands have been occupied by the Zionist regime. It is also their duty to defend Islamic territories against the Zionist enemy. But of course intellectuals and the ulema shoulder a heavier responsibility in this regard."
Ayatollah Khamenei further noted:
"Today, the wave of Islamic renaissance is sweeping Muslim nations, and we can see the signs of this awakening all over the Islamic world. Islam is quite able to answer questions posed by those with curious minds, and it is the duty of the ulema to present a modern image of Islam to those who are thirsty for pure Islamic knowledge.
"However, this by no means implies compromising Islamic tenets and principles. Some, under the influence of modernism, have lost their Islamic identity in the face of the Western culture and school of thought. But we believe that Islam is quite capable of answering all the questions posed in the modern world based on its own well-reasoned principles and doctrines."
Leader of the Islamic Republic also pointed out:
"Egyptian ulema have been in the vanguard of the movement to revive pure Islamic thinking and have rendered valuable services in this respect. Therefore, we would like Egypt to preserve this status in the Islamic world even today."
In conclusion, Ayatollah Khamenei stated:
"I would like to ask those who organized the congress here and the Egyptian scholars who participated in this congress to increase their communication and exchange of views on the main issues of the Islamic world and hold more gatherings to discuss these issues. I would also like to convey my regards to all the Egyptian ulema and our dear brothers at Al-Azhar." 
