
<meta year="2002" title="Leader's Speech at Shahid Sattari Air Force Academy"/>
Ayatollah Khamenei stated that ever since the victory of the Islamic Revolution and the years of sacred defense against Iraqi military aggression, the Air Force has been held in high esteem by the Iranian people because of the devotion, bravery and self-sacrifice of its personnel.
"Those Air Force servicemen who sacrificed their lives and achieved martyrdom in the way of defending their country and their Islamic system are luminaries that have made the Air Force brilliant and highly esteemed in the eyes of the Iranian people," he stressed.
Leader of the Islamic Republic went on to say: 
"Right after the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the young, brave and devoted personnel of the Air Force in different military bases across the country made every endeavor shoulder to shoulder with other Iranian people to safeguard the achievements of the Islamic Revolution.
"Furthermore, these young and devout servicemen did their utmost to boost the capabilities of the Air Force and maintain and update its equipment.
"As a result of the laudable endeavors and self-sacrifice of these dedicated servicemen, the Air Force of the Islamic Republic played a key and crucial role in defending our country against Iraqi aggressors in the course of the eight years of sacred defense, and it even managed to tilt the balance of power in the war zones in favor of our country.
"This victory was achieved despite the fact that the Iraqi regime was being supported by almost all superpowers of the time, which provided Iraq with all types of modern weapons and sophisticated military equipment. However, the Islamic Republic only relied and depended on the power of its great nation." 
Elsewhere in his remarks, Ayatollah Khamenei stated:
"There are certain periods and stages in the history of any nation which are fateful and decisive for that nation. The Iranian nation has gone through all these stages with strong will and determination and with great awareness and vigilance, thus earning honor and dignity in the eyes of the international community.
"Indeed, the way the Iranian people have confronted and dealt with the Iraqi imposed war, economic sanctions, political pressure, negative propaganda and smear campaign of the enemies has caused both friends and enemies to acknowledge that the Iranian nation is a powerful and talented nation deserving honor and dignity."
In conclusion, Leader of the Islamic Republic called on the Air Force servicemen, especially the students and trainees taking various courses at the academy, to try to preserve their praiseworthy qualities such as their bravery, strong faith and high moral standards and also try to make the most of their time by constantly increasing their knowledge and technical and military expertise.
Ayatollah Khamenei also paid tribute to the revered martyrs of the Air Force, the Army, the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps, the popular Basij Force and all the devoted personnel of the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
