
<meta year="2006" title="Leader's Speech to Participants of 19th International Conference on Islamic Unity"/>
I would like to welcome all the brothers and sisters 
who have attended this meeting. I extend my congratulations on the 
occasion of Mab'ath, the appointing of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), the 
source of light for human history. Also, I would like to congratulate 
all of you and all Muslims on the brilliant victory that our brothers in
 Lebanon achieved over the Zionist regime, which was in fact a victory 
for Islam. Our brothers in southern Lebanon acted as the vanguard of the
 Islamic Ummah against the Zionist aggressors. 
This meeting is a great and important meeting. You 
have gathered here from different parts of the world of Islam. There is 
no doubt that the future of the Muslim world will be determined by the 
plans of the outstanding scholarly, religious and political 
personalities of the world of Islam. If the people who have attended 
this meeting and other outstanding personalities of the world of Islam 
look at the Islamic Ummah from a critical and compassionate prospective 
and look for a solution, the Islamic Ummah will have a good future. If 
we fail to identify or carry out our responsibilities, for many years 
the world of Islam will suffer from the same afflictions that it has 
been suffering from so far. We have a heavy responsibility to shoulder.
Your topic of discussion is Muslim minorities in 
non-Islamic countries. Of course, this is an important subject: the 
International Forum for Proximity of Islamic Denominations and 
outstanding personalities of the world of Islam should focus on this 
issue and make plans for it. I am grateful to you for what you have done
 in this regard, but the point that I would like to raise is that our 
primary issue in the world of Islam is unity of the Islamic Ummah. If we
 manage to overcome the plots of the enemy, if we manage to foil his 
plots to cause division, many of our problems will be resolved, and the 
problem of Muslim minorities is among the problems that will be 
resolved. 
We are suffering from a deadly malady and we need to 
make efforts to cure this malady. The disputes that exist in the world 
of Islam, the existing lack of harmony and the efforts that are made to 
fan the flames of hostilities are a very dangerous malady.
This malady might have existed in the world of Islam 
over the past eras, but today political hands are after exacerbating 
this malady. We can see the examples of this in the world of Islam, 
which makes one tremble with fear. We are not afraid of our outer 
enemies. The awe of America and other arrogant powers has not struck 
fear and doubt into our hearts. Hostile military activities, propaganda 
campaigns, political efforts and economic hostilities have not and will 
not put us in a passive position, but this inner malady of the world of 
Islam makes us tremble with fear. It is necessary for you to cure this 
malady.
Since the time the flag of Islam was raised in Iran 
and the Islamic Republic was established with the aim of achieving 
Islamic goals, the enemies of Islam started to make careful plans to 
foment discord and they have been pursuing those plans, because when 
Muslims gained a sense of dignity and honor, when Muslims realized that 
it was possible to raise the flag of Islam, when the spirit of Islamic 
identity was revived in them, when Muslim masses started to shout 
Islamic slogans everywhere, the arrogant powers realized that their 
illegitimate interests had been seriously jeopardized in this vast 
Islamic region.
With a population of one and a half billion people, 
with its numerous geographical, climatic, natural and human resources, 
with the unique resources that it enjoys, the world of Islam can form a 
great alliance. Today it is more than two hundred years that western 
colonials have been lining their pockets in this region, both during the
 era of colonialism and during the era of neocolonialism when this 
region has been used to further the political goals of the arrogant 
powers, whose leader is America. If the Islamic Ummah unites, if Muslims
 show their power in the real sense of the word, if genuine Islamic 
independence is achieved in this region, the enemy's economic, political
 and cultural hegemony will end. They do not want these things to happen
 and they will do everything in their power to prevent such things from 
happening. Fomenting discord is the way that they have found useful and 
unfortunately this malady has penetrated the world of Islam. I ask you 
to pay serious attention to this issue. 
We repeatedly mention "Islamic unity". All of us 
speak about it. All of us speak about Islamic brotherhood. In fact, a 
group of outstanding personalities in the world of Islam truly feel this
 sense of brotherhood. For example, the spirit of brotherhood is 
prevalent in this meeting: all of us consider each other as insiders and
 we do not feel that there is a distance between us. This is a truth, 
but this gathering is not truly representative of the world of Islam as 
far as politics, government and the people are concerned. The enemies 
continue sowing the seeds of discord among members of the Islamic Ummah,
 and impure politicians, wrong prejudices, failure to see the bright 
prospects that lie in front of the Muslim world and locking ourselves in
 a small world prepare the ground for the spread of these prejudices.
Some of the friends who spoke in this meeting 
referred to the issue of Iraq. Notice what is happening in Iraq. Today 
in Iraq and in certain other countries, groups of Shia and Sunni Muslims
 have been pitched against each other. They are fighting each other, 
thinking that this will help them move closer to God. Why? Who has 
instilled these wrong motives into them? After all, Islam does not 
promote these things.
Try to translate Islamic unity into action and 
prepare a charter for unity, one that is approved and sanctioned by all 
religious scholars, all Muslim intellectuals and all outstanding and 
pure political personalities of the world of Islam, so that no Muslim 
dares to excommunicate monotheist speakers who belong to a different 
denomination or political party, so that all Muslim brothers stay 
together.
By Islamic unity, we do not mean that all beliefs and
 Islamic denominations should become identical. The clash of Islamic 
denominations and beliefs, the clash of philosophical and fiqhi beliefs 
is an arena for scholarly work, an arena for fiqhi debates, an arena for
 philosophical debates. After all, each sect will have its own set of 
beliefs, but it is possible to keep philosophical and fiqhi differences 
away from the arena of daily life and politics. What we mean by unity of
 the world of Islam is that we should avoid disputes: "Do not quarrel 
for then you will be weak" [The Holy Quran, Sura al-Anfal, Ayah 46]. 
There should be no quarrelling. There should be no discord.
The Holy Quran says, "Hold fast by the covenant of 
Allah all together and be not disunited" [The Holy Quran, Sura al-Imran,
 Ayah 103]. It is every Muslim's responsibility to hold fast by the 
covenant of Allah, but the Holy Quran goes beyond this demand and says 
that we should hold fast by the covenant of Allah "all together", not 
alone. And this unity is another religious obligation. Therefore, 
besides holding fast by the covenant of Allah, Muslims should stay 
united and cooperate with each other. We should gain an appropriate 
understanding of this obligation and we should carry it out in an 
appropriate way. There is another holy ayah which says, "Therefore, 
whoever disbelieves in satan and believes in Allah he indeed has laid 
hold on the firmest handle, which shall not break off" [The Holy Quran, 
Sura al-Baqarah, Ayah 256]. This ayah interprets the previous ayah for 
us. What is the right way to hold fast by the covenant of Allah? Through
 having faith in God and rejecting taghut.
Today the regime of the United States of America is 
the greatest taghut in the world because it created Zionism and it has 
been sanctioning it. America replaced the previous greatest taghut, 
namely England. Today the invasions of the US regime and its 
sympathizers and allies have put the world of Islam in a difficult 
situation. On its way to spiritual and material progress and when 
adopting positions, the world of Islam has been under pressure from 
America and its allies and sympathizers. For example, during the Zionist
 regime's attack on Lebanon over the past month - which resulted in a 
great Islamic epic by Hezbollah and divine assistance was bestowed on 
them - America openly entered the arena of war and did not limit itself 
to verbal, financial and political support: it provided weapons and 
military assistance for the Zionist regime. In fact, this war was 
started by the Americans. Today the Americans are the greatest taghut in
 the world.
In many parts of the world of Islam, people have 
faith in Allah the Exalted, but they do not reject taghut. Rejecting 
taghut is necessary. Without rejecting taghut, it is not possible to lay
 hold "on the firmest handle, which shall not break off" [The Holy 
Quran, Sura al-Baqarah, Ayah 256]. We do not call on governments and 
peoples to start a war with America. We are only calling on them to 
refuse to surrender to America, to refuse to cooperate with the enemy of
 Islam and Muslims. One way in which they can refuse to cooperate with 
America is to preserve the unity of the Islamic Ummah and ignore their 
tempting offers which would undermine Islamic unity. 
We believe that today the most important issue of the
 world of Islam is the issue of unity. If we achieve unity, we will be 
able to achieve progress in scientific and political areas. You see what
 pressure the enemies of the world of Islam are exerting on Iran 
regarding the nuclear issue. They know that we are not after an atomic 
bomb. They are only unhappy that an Islamic country is achieving 
scientific and technological advances, an Islamic country which has 
shown that it will not surrender to America's policies, that it is not 
afraid of America. They believe that our Islamic country should be 
prevented from achieving progress in the most important area of 
technology in today's world, namely nuclear technology. This is why they
 are pressuring us. Of course, we have made our decision. Over the past 
twenty seven years since the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the 
Iranian people have realized through experience that reliance on God, 
patience and selfless struggle are the only way in which they can put an
 end to the plots of the enemies. We have been following this path until
 today and we have reaped the benefits. By Allah's favor, we will 
continue this path with all our power. We can already see the outcomes 
of following this path.
Dear brothers and sisters, today the world of Islam 
is in an exceptional situation. One can say that the world of Islam has 
not had a similar opportunity over the past centuries. Today we have a 
great opportunity. Muslim peoples have awakened. The wave of Islamic 
Awakening has spread to every aspect of the world of Islam. Muslim 
peoples have become aware of their rights. Many Muslim leaders are full 
of grudges against the arrogant powers although they may not show this, 
and this is something that we can see clearly. In many Islamic 
countries, Muslim leaders, politicians and government officials, are 
very unhappy about the behavior of America and other arrogant powers. 
This is a great opportunity for the world of Islam and it is necessary 
to make use of this opportunity. One responsibility falls on the 
shoulders of politicians and another responsibility falls on the 
shoulders of outstanding intellectual and cultural personalities. The 
latter responsibility is as important as the former responsibility. 
Religious scholars, intellectuals and outstanding thinkers of the world 
of Islam as well as opinion leaders who can speak to the people, have a 
great responsibility to shoulder and they should help the people 
appropriately understand what power Muslim peoples enjoy. 
For centuries - since the emergence of colonialism to
 the present time - the arrogant powers have tried to convince Muslim 
peoples that they are not capable of achieving anything, that they are 
incapable of confronting the arrogant powers. Of course, colonialism has
 managed to instill this belief into many Muslims over a long period of 
time, and the treachery of certain Muslim politicians has played a role 
in this regard. This misguided belief resulted in great afflictions for 
the world of Islam - most importantly, the issue of holy Quds and the 
issue of Palestine. 
It is nearly sixty years now that Palestine - the 
house of Islam and the original qiblah of Muslims - has been taken away 
from its owners and the Palestinians are living as refugees in other 
countries or they are living in their homes in Palestine under the 
pressure of that shameless usurper regime, which is sanctioned by the 
enemies of Islam. This great tragedy took place because Muslims were not
 aware of their capabilities. If the current wave of Islamic Awakening 
in the world of Islam existed in the 1930s and 1940s, that event would 
not have happened in Palestine and the usurper English government would 
not have dared to take an Islamic country away from its people and give 
it to foreigners. Today we should gradually make up for the loss we have
 suffered, and this is possible through planning, this is possible 
through adopting wise and calculated actions, this is possible through 
determined work. With a tendency towards inaction and subjugation, the 
world of Islam will never achieve its goals. The world of Islam and the 
Islamic Ummah will never achieve their goals if they fear the enemy and 
lose faith in the power of the people. 
The million-strong crowds that you see in Islamic 
countries are a source of massive power, and if this power is activated,
 no foreign power will be able to stand up against it. One example is 
the recent event which took place in Lebanon and Allah the Exalted 
provided us with ultimate proof. The event that took place in Lebanon 
and the clear victory that Hezbollah won, provided us with ultimate 
proof. That victory was a true example of "how often has a small party 
vanquished a numerous host by Allah's permission, and Allah is with the 
patient" [The Holy Quran, Sura al-Baqarah, Ayah 249]. Of course, the 
enemies of Islam denied the power of the people and made politicians 
lose faith in the power of their people. I believe one of the 
achievements of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) was that he discovered the 
power of the people and he made use of it. He put his faith in the 
people.
The conditions of Iran were not good before the 
victory of the Revolution. The people did not have a sense of 
responsibility towards the country, the enemies had dominated our 
country, Iran had become the stronghold of Israel, a place where leaders
 of the Zionist regime would rest: they would come and plunder our 
resources and use our country to further their political and financial 
goals. The day when certain Arab countries decided to use oil against 
Israel, the Shah of Iran relieved the minds of the Zionists by saying 
that he would provide them with oil. This was the situation of Iran at 
that time and nobody was hopeful. When our magnanimous Imam (may God 
sanctify his pure soul) made determined efforts to start this battle, he
 was relying on nothing but the power of the people. He identified this 
source of power and relied on it, and Allah the Exalted transformed the 
hearts of the people. Allah the Exalted has full control over 
everything: "So you did not slay them, but it was Allah Who slew them" 
[The Holy Quran, Sura al-Anfal, Ayah 17]. When the hearts of the people 
became aware of this truth, they stepped into the arena and the 
foundations of the power of the Shah's taghuti and dependent regime were
 shaken and the Islamic system was established in our country. Iran is 
located in the most sensitive part of the world of the Islam, and 
America and other arrogant powers had mainly pinned their hopes on the 
Shah's monarchy.
It is necessary to be aware of the power that the 
people enjoy. The people enjoy massive power. In order to bring this 
power into the arena, it is necessary to be sincere and to make 
determined and selfless efforts. If the people step into the arena and 
if politicians and leaders of different countries move closer to their 
people, no power will be able to stand up against them and nothing will 
threaten them. Of course, without jihad and without tolerating 
hardships, one will not achieve anything. Therefore, the Islamic Ummah 
should tolerate certain hardships so that it can reach its noble goals. 
These are important responsibilities that we shoulder in the world of 
Islam.
We are thankful to Allah the Exalted who has guided 
the hearts of the majority of the Muslim peoples, outstanding 
personalities and religious scholars towards the right path. Basically, 
you should try to prevent peoples from losing hope. You should not let 
the enemies convince Muslim peoples that their future prospects are 
bleak. You should try to prevent the arrogant powers from casting their 
heavy shadow over our hearts and our willpower. You should not let 
discord make us weak. Unfortunately one can see today that the words of 
America and England are being repeated by certain politicians of the 
world of Islam. They repeat exactly what the enemies want and they fan 
the flames of the Shia-Sunni conflict and other sectarian conflicts in 
the world of Islam. This is exactly what the enemies of Islam want. It 
is necessary to counter these things.
I pray to Allah the Exalted to make us successful in 
whatever that satisfies Him, and I hope that He helps us carry out our 
responsibilities. In the Islamic Republic, we are truly happy about the 
fulfillment of divine promises and we constantly see divine promises 
being fulfilled. Of course, they threaten us. We have been faced with 
constant threats. Threats are not new to us. They have threatened the 
Islamic Republic since the beginning of the Revolution, but the Islamic 
Republic has managed to counter these threats through its resistance and
 we will continue doing so in the future. The people of any Muslim 
country, who stand up against the threats of the arrogant powers and do 
not lose their confidence, will witness victory with their own eyes. 
They will witness the fulfillment of divine promises with their own 
eyes. 
We extend a hand of brotherhood towards all Muslim 
peoples and towards all intellectual and political leaders of the world 
of Islam, and we ask them to further strengthen this bond of 
brotherhood. We hope that Allah the Exalted helps the world of Islam 
achieve more victories in different areas.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

