
<meta year="2006" title="Leader's Speech at the Shrine of Imam Ridha (a.s.)"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem Mustafa Muhammad, and upon his immaculate, pure, chosen and infallible household, especially the one remaining with Allah on earth.
I thank Allah the Exalted who once more gave me an opportunity to be at the holy shrine of Imam Abul-Hassan Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha - in the beginning of the solar hijri new year - in the company of you brothers and sisters who have gathered in Mashhad from throughout the country. Brothers and sisters, in the beginning of my speech, I would like to say a few sentences about Arbaeen.
The beginning of the new year and this Eid have been imbued with the scent of Hussein (a.s.) because of the coincidence of Norouz with Arbaeen. This year has blossomed with the name of Hussein ibn Ali (a.s.), the master of all liberated people and martyrs. Whether it is true that the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household went to Karbala on Arbaeen - which has been narrated by a number of people - or not, apparently there is no doubt that Jabir ibn Abdullah Ansari, a great personality from the tabiyeen, went to visit the shrine of the Martyr of Karbala (a.s.) on Arbaeen.
Some people said that the name of that great personality was Atiyyah and some others said that his name was Ata. It is possible that he was Atiyyah ibn Harith al-Kufi al-Hamadani. In any case, he was a great personality from the tabiyeen who was living in Kufa.
Arbaeen was the day on which the magnetism of Hussein (a.s.) began to magnetize the world. This magnetism made Jabir ibn Abdullah go from Madina to Karbala. This is the same magnetism which attracts the hearts and souls of you and me even today although many centuries have passed since the day of Ashura. Those people who are sympathetic to the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a) household, always keep alive the love of Karbala in their hearts. The love of Hussein (a.s.), the Master of the Martyrs, and his shrine has started since that day.
Jabir ibn Abdullah was one of the mujahedeen during the Islamic era. That is to say, before Imam Hussein (a.s.) was born, he was serving the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and he was fighting beside him. He had seen Imam Hussein's (a.s.) birth and childhood with his own eyes and he had seen how he grew to maturity. Jabir ibn Abdullah had definitely seen that the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) cuddled Hussein ibn Ali (a.s.), kissed his eyes, kissed his face, fed him with his own hands and gave him water.
Jabir ibn Abdullah has most probably seen these things with his own eyes. Jabir ibn Abdullah had definitely heard with his own ears that the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) referred to Hassan (a.s.) and Hussein (a.s.) as the "Masters of the Youth of Paradise".
After the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) demise, he was witness to Imam Hussein's (a.s.) position and character whether during the time of the caliphs, during the time of the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.), when he was in Madina or when he was in Kufa.
Now Jabir has heard that Hussein ibn Ali (a.s.) has been martyred. The Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) dear grandchild was martyred while he was thirsty. Jabir has set off from Madina. Atiyyah has joined him from Kufa. Atiyyah narrates, "Jabir ibn Abdullah came beside the Euphrates. He performed ghusl there, wore a clean, white garment and then he walked in a slow and respectful manner towards the grave of Imam Hussein (a.s.)".
The narration which I saw says, "When he reached the grave, he loudly said three times, 'Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar'". That is to say, when he saw how the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a) and Hazrat Zahra's (s.a.) dear one was innocently martyred by oppressive and savage people, he says, "Allahu Akbar". The narration goes on to say, "Jabir ibn Abdullah became unconscious over the grave of Imam Hussein (a.s.) and fell as a result of deep sorrow". We do not know what was happening after that. But this narration says that when he regained consciousness, he started to speak to Imam Hussein (a.s.): "Greetings be upon you God's household. Greetings be upon you God's chosen people". 
Oh innocent Hussein, oh martyred Hussein, today - in the beginning of the new year - we say to you from the bottom of our hearts, "Greetings be upon you Aba Abdullah, greetings be upon you martyred Hussein!" Your martyrdom, your jihad and your resistance have helped Islam to thrive. They have given fresh impetus to the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) religion.
If it had not been for that martyrdom, nothing would have remained from the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) religion. Today, our hearts are yearning for Hussein ibn Ali (a.s.) and for that hexagonal zarih and that holy shrine. Although we are away from these holy places, our words - uttered in this meeting - are imbued with the memory and love of Hussein ibn Ali (a.s.).
We have promised ourselves - and we promise ourselves now - that we will never forget the memory, the name and the path of Hussein (a.s.) throughout our lives. All the people in our country, all Shias in the world and all the liberated people throughout the world have such a feeling towards Hussein ibn Ali (a.s.).
This year has been ornamented with the name of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). What should we say about the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) except that he is an amalgamation of the virtues of all prophets? He is a complete version of all the virtues of prophets and God's saints. 
The name of Ahmad is the name of all prophets.
When one hundred arrives, ninety is also with us. 
When we say the name of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), it is like the character of Ibrahim, the character of Nuh, the character of Musa, the character of Isa, the character of Luqman, the character of all righteous and outstanding people, the character of the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) and the character of infallible Imams (a.s.) are reflected in the character of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.).
We can liken the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) to the brightest star in the universe. Why do I say he is like a bright star, not the sun? It is because the sun is a definite celestial body. It is bright and magnificent, but it is a celestial body. However, among the stars that you see, there are some which are galaxies and are thousands of times larger than the one we see in summer nights. A galaxy is a collection of thousands of solar systems and suns. The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) was like a galaxy and he had thousands of virtues which shone brightly like a star.
In him, knowledge is accompanied by morality, government is accompanied by wisdom, worshipping God is accompanied by serving people, jihad is accompanied by mercy, love of God is accompanied by love of his creatures, pride is accompanied by modesty, being up-to-date is accompanied by foresight, honesty is accompanied by complexity - in political matters - attention to God is accompanied by attention to peace and health, attention to worldly matters is accompanied by attention to spiritual matters and pursing divine goals is accompanied by pursuing human goals.
He is a perfect example of a human being and God Almighty has not created a person who is as perfect as him. He is a bearer of good news and he is a warner. He knows what all humanity is doing and he knows everything that happens in history. He is the person who invites all humanity to get close to God and he is a shining beacon of guidance for humanity: "Surely, We have sent you as a witness, and as a bearer of good news and as a warner and as one inviting to Allah by His permission, and as a light-giving torch" [The Holy Quran, 33: 45-46].
This year is the year of this galaxy-like personality for our government and for our people. Besides, at an international level, the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) is the link that connects the beliefs and the emotions of all Muslim peoples to one another. The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) is the link that connects the beliefs and the emotions of the Islamic Ummah - including all ethnicities with different denominations - to one another.
We have a great responsibility in such a year and with such a name. In this year, our people and our government should act in a way which is in line with the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) wisdom, knowledge, government, justice, behavior, modesty, pride, jihad and mercy.
Of course, not all of these can be done in a year, as the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) is not a prophet for a year. All years and all history belong to him. What I meant is that in this year we should take a quantum leap and a big step in order to build society, the world and the civilization that the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) had in mind. "The Year of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.)" is the year of lofty attitudes, the year of hope, the year of work, the year of diligence, the year of service and the year of clever plans for the future of our country. It is the year of moving forward.
Let us take a look at the general condition of our country. We are starting the year with a new administration in office. Each administration defines a new phase and it starts governing with its own characteristics. This does not mean a change of direction. This does not mean that as new administrations are formed, our nation is changing the path of its primary and lofty goals. Rather it means benefiting from the achievements of new administrations which may be accompanied by new innovations, acceleration of things and correction - of course if there have been any mistakes.
A people who change administrations are like a traveler who is taking a specific path. When he reaches a certain point, he replaces his means of transport - which is not working properly - with a new one so that he can follow the same path. If in the previous stage there was a deviation in the path, he tries to find the correct path and move towards his lofty goals. It is the people who decide. It is the people who scrutinize candidates - each of whom has a specific slogan and character - choose one among them and vote for him.
In each term, the government is the government of the people. It represents the people's choice and orientation. The characteristics of the new administration - which has been formed for about six months - are: showing determination to serve the people in a tireless way, bringing its full capacities to the arena and highlighting the lofty goals of the Revolution. These are the characteristics of this administration. 
By relying on the slogans of the Revolution and our magnanimous Imam (r.a.), this administration is determined to bring its full capacities to the arena, work with all its heart and soul, untie knots in the lives of the people, build the infrastructures of our country as soon as possible and as efficiently as it can for future progress, and stress national independence and the dignity of the people of Iran in international arenas.
In international arenas, deception and threats are the main tools of demagogues. If a government does not show any weakness and if it relies on its own people, it will make many achievements. We see and we feel that this administration wants to preserve national dignity and independence in a way that it befits the people of Iran.
On the basis of the slogans of the new administration and president, we can briefly say that they have decided to take a huge step towards rendering services, making scientific progress and fulfilling the needs of the country. My dear ones, our country has the same resources that an advanced country has. We can be one of the most advanced countries in the world in terms of human and natural resources.
After the victory of the Revolution, we have started to enter the arena of progress. Of course, according to the logic of the Islamic Revolution, development and progress are meaningless without justice. If we want to achieve justice-based progress, we should make determined efforts to encourage creativity and production by benefitting from the achievements that were made as a result of all the efforts of the previous administrations. We need creativity and production. 
What does production mean? I do not mean that we should only produce goods. Large-scale production should be the slogan of our people. By production, I mean production of work, knowledge, technology, wealth, opportunities, dignity, goods and competent people. These are all production. The happiness of our people lies in making a determined effort - both the government and the people should do this - to encourage this large-scale production. 
This will provide our country with national security and it will help it to make progress and to gain power. This is a jihad. I will tell you - the executive officials and all the people, particularly you youth - that this is a jihad. Today, the production of knowledge, work, new ideas, the goods that people need, competent people, opportunities and dignity are each a jihad.
A mujahid who engages in jihad in the way of God is a producer. We should both acquire and produce knowledge. There is a narration from the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) which says, "Knowledge is power. Anybody who has knowledge will be able to dominate those around him. Anybody who fails to gain knowledge will be ruled" [Commentary on Nahjul Balaghah, Volume 20, page 319]. Each people who have knowledge can rule. Each people who fail to gain knowledge should prepare itself to be ruled.
We should pursue knowledge - in the real sense of the word - as a jihad. I am addressing this to the youth, the professors and academic personalities. However, knowledge alone is not enough. We should create a link between knowledge and technology. Then we should create a link between technology and industry. Then we should create a link between industry and the progress of the country.
The kind of industry which does not facilitate the progress of the country is not valuable for us. The kind of knowledge which does not lead to technology is useless. Universities have a heavy responsibility. The educational system has a heavy responsibility. Research centers have a heavy responsibility as well. 
Achieving justice-based progress is a widespread movement. This movement does not develop in only one year. It is not the case that we have just started to establish this movement or that we want to establish it today. This movement has been created since the beginning of the revolution by the executive officials who put as much effort into it as they could. The people and the officials made certain efforts and today we can see the result of their efforts in our lives.
The efforts of past generations provide future generations with the opportunity to take bigger steps. Therefore, this movement is not one that has begun today. It began in the past and it will not end in only one year. But when we say this year is "The Year of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.)" we mean that we - both the government and the people - should make a quantum leap on this matter. Everyone, wherever they are, should take a big step towards this goal.
Once a wise man wanted to preach in a mosque. A large crowd had gathered in the mosque. The mosque was full of people and as a result, a number of people had to stand at the door. In order to make room for these people, somebody stood up and said, "God bestows His mercy on those people who stand up and take one step forward". He said this to make the people make space and let the other people in. The wise man turned his face towards the crowd and said, "I have nothing else to say. What this man said was all that I had wanted to say".
I want to say that you people - wherever you are - should stand up and take one step forward. If you are worshipping, take one step forward. If you are involved in the area of education, take one step forward. If you are involved in production, take one step forward. If you are a laborer, take one step forward. If you are an employer, take one step forward. If you are a professor, take one step forward. If you are a university student, take one step forward. If you are a government official, take one step forward. If you are a researcher in universities and Islamic seminaries, take one step forward. There is not stagnation, frustration, dogmatism and hopelessness in the tradition the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) fought against hopelessness. A Muslim is full of hope.
Of course, we have certain enemies who do not like our people to move forward. Our enemies are headed by the regime of the United States of America. What do the leading politicians of America want to say to the people of Iran?
I would like to draw your attention to what the Americans are really trying to say. Of course, they say a lot of things, but they want to convey only one message. They are saying that you people of Iran should give us back what your Revolution has taken away from us.
They are telling us "Before the Revolution, we used to have economic, political and cultural domination over your country. Your president used to get permission from our ambassador for international decisions". It is a truth. The cursed Shah used to negotiate with the American and English ambassadors about the issue of oil, international transactions, different diplomatic and political relations and even about how he should have behaved towards the people.
He used to do what they wanted. They are telling us, "We used to have such domination, but your Revolution came and threw us out. Give this domination back to us so that we can have domination over your country again". This is what they are telling us. They raise the issue of human rights, nuclear energy and democracy and they accuse us of terrorism. These are only some excuses. What they really want to say is the same thing that I told you.
They are saying, "You should let us install your government again and control your economy". They are saying, "We should be the people who determine where your position is in international arenas as we make this decision for other governments". They expect the Iranian nation to do this. It is 27 years now that the Americans are struggling with the people of Iran over this issue. Today is not different from the past in this regard. Today, the behavior of the Americans towards the people of Iran is the same as it used to be during the past 27 years. 
And their instruments are threatening, creating panic, using psychological warfare, making the people feel disappointed and hopeless, creating discord and provoking the people. They do these if they can. The instruments of the enemies of your country are these things. They exert pressures - frustrating pressures - and they magnify them through propaganda so that they create a sense of insecurity in people and so that the people harbor doubts about their achievements, their future and the competence of their officials. This is what the enemy does.
They exert pressures so that they can create discord among our officials and so that they can make the decision-makers of the country waver in their big decisions. These are what the enemy does. These are his tools. He does not have any other tool. They threaten to impose sanctions on the people of Iran. Have you not imposed sanctions until now? Until now, has the Iranian nation not been under the sanctions that have been imposed by you bullying powers?
If we have made any achievement today and if we are the top country in the region in terms of science and industry - certain areas of industry - we have made these achievements under sanctions. We have made military progress. We have made scientific progress. We have made astonishing achievements in the area of medicine. We have made progress in the area of industry - in those complicated industries which the world did not think we have the capability. We have made progress in biological sciences. We have acquired knowledge in areas which were previously in the hands of certain experts and these experts did not allow anyone to acquire these areas of knowledge, except for their own small group.
All these achievements have been made under sanctions. If they had not imposed sanctions, perhaps we would not have reached our current position. If they had taken our money and sold their outdated weapons to us, we would not have thought to benefit from the innovation and talent of our youth, we would not have produced airplanes, tanks and missiles and we would not have overtaken many regional countries in terms of these productions. If they had opened their markets to us and given us whatever we wanted, they would have taken our money and put it inside their pockets, and we would not have made these achievements. Do you frighten us with sanctions?
They tell us that we are isolated in the global community. We will tell them that you are isolated, not us. Today, the world hates America's methods. Today, the world of Islam - from Indonesia to Morocco - hates America. Wherever you go and ask people, you see that deep inside their hearts, there is hatred of the leaders of the White House. If they want to know who is isolated, I suggest that they hold a referendum in order to measure the popularity of our President and the President of America. If the leaders of the American regime are not afraid of the humiliating results of such a referendum or poll, they can enter this arena and they can hold it. Today, nations hate America. Many governments hate them too, but their interests require that they do not express this hatred. Sometimes, their hatred is not less than ours. 
They accuse the Islamic Republic of violating human rights. This is one of the most entertaining jokes in the present time. America has turned into a country which carries the flag of human rights. Which America? It is the same America that caused disasters in Hiroshima, Guantanamo, Abu Ghraib, the same America that wages wars and creates insecurity in many parts of the world and the same America that imposes censorship inside the country of America.
The issue of censoring ideas, books and speech in America is a very important and interesting issue. There is not enough time to discuss it now. They say that we are the violators of human rights, but they themselves are the biggest violators of human rights. If today a referendum is held in the world - we do not say in the world of Islam - you must have no doubts that the current President of America will rank alongside Sharon, Saddam and Milosevic as the embodiments of evil.
Today, America is a threat to global peace and security. Therefore, today, "Death to America" is not just a slogan that is particular to the Iranian nation. Today, they burn the president of America in effigy and they shout the slogan of "Death to America". The reason is the greed of the American regime, its arrogance and its desire for domination. The reason is that it is a plaything for the Zionists. It is really a plaything for the Zionists. 
I would like to say a few things about the issue which has been raised these days in different media. Then I will discuss the issue of nuclear energy. On the issue of negotiation with America - which has become the main topic of the propaganda of arrogant powers - we have announced since the beginning and we would like to announce now that we do not negotiate with America about any issue.
The reason is clear. The reason is that for the Americans negotiating is a tool to impose what they want on the side that they negotiate with. When America negotiates with other countries, negotiation does not carry its true meaning and it loses its meaning. What is negotiation for? When two friends negotiate about a disagreement between themselves, the purpose is that each of them moves away from where they are until they find a common point. For America, negotiation does not mean this. They have used negotiation as a tool for imposing what they want and for exerting pressures. Therefore, negation with America about any issue is meaningless.
The issue that has been widely discussed these days is about the security of Iraq. American officials - whether those who are in Iraq or those who are outside Iraq - repeatedly asked our officials [to help them on this matter] and our officials did not pay attention to them at first. Later on, our officials said that they have no problems with offering their opinions to the American side because it may be necessary for preventing terrorist activities against the innocent people of Iraq.
What are these opinions about? These opinions are about making the Americans understand that they should let go of Iraq so that the people of Iraq can manage their own country. They should stop provoking different ethnic groups so that Iraq can have security. The people of Iraq can manage their own country and they can ensure their own security.
There is ample evidence that intelligence services - the intelligence services of America, England and the Zionist regime - are behind the current terrorist activities in Iraq. Providing security for the people of Iraq gave us the motivation to offer our opinions to the Americans.
Even on this issue, the Americans showed that they have a desire for domination, that they are greedy and that they are liars. They pretended that Iran wants to negotiate with America about various matters. They used very indecent words to refer to this negotiation. Even some American officials said in an arrogant and dishonest way, "This means that the Iranian ambassador has been summoned to visit American officials". Let me tell you, to hell with the American government daring to summon an Iranian official!
It is all right if our officials who are responsible for this get some points across to the American officials with the purpose of knocking some sense into them over the issue of Iraq. But if negotiation means opening a path for the bullying and deceitful side so that he can impose what he wants on the other side by bullying, this is - as I announced earlier - forbidden like other cases. Our people's dignity and resistance are the reasons for our country's progress and strength. It is not possible to damage them with illusion.
I would like to say a few things about nuclear energy. In summary, the enemy wants to say to the people of Iran, "You should not have nuclear technology". Why? "It is because nuclear technology will make you strong in different arenas. You should not have this technology so that you remain weak and it becomes easier to bully you".
The people should be careful about what exists at the heart of the enemy's words. This is the issue. Nuclear energy and the ability to produce nuclear fuel will become an essential need of the people of Iran in the not-too-distant future. If the people of Iran do not develop nuclear technology for their country today, in a few years - when our youth will enter the job market and when the population of the Iranian nation will be millions more than this - they will have to ask foreigners and,most probably, their enemies for help.
The situation will be similar to the one in which we run out of oil. Oil is a finite and irrecoverable resource. Oil will not last forever. If it is consumed the way it is consumed today, the people of Iran will run out of oil in 20, 25 years. The world has turned to alternative sources of energy. The most important and the most reliable one is nuclear energy. If our country does not have nuclear energy in 20 years, in order to set up a factory, it will have to turn to people who do not like our nation to make progress at all. They will take away the dignity of the people of Iran so that they can give a little of what they have to them.
Once I said in Mashhad - where a large number of people were present - that if the oil we have today were in the hands of Europe and America, we would have to prostrate before them so that they give us one barrel of oil. But would they give that to us?
In the course of 15, 20 years, they want to make the people of Iran dependent on them for their needs in the area of industry and agriculture and for the continuation of life in their country. They want to make the people of Iran knock on their door asking for help. This is the importance of nuclear energy.
Now they say that nuclear energy can be used for treatment and medicinal purposes. Yes, these are also among the benefits of nuclear energy, but they are of secondary importance. Primarily, nuclear energy is the main and fundamental need of our country. If today our officials do not produce this energy, all the people will have the right to curse them in 20 years. It is not possible to produce it on that day. When a people need something, they sell it at an exorbitant price. Besides, they will not give them the exact thing that they need. Rather, they ignore and humiliate them.
What America is saying to us is, "Put aside the technology that has been achieved on your own and in return, we will give you nuclear fuel". What does this mean? It means, "Build a power plant and then come to us for the fuel of this power plant so that we give it to you with whatever condition and at whatever price we like".
This is similar to a situation in which, hypothetically, oil was in the hands of the Americans. Imagine that we would need oil and diesel oil to produce energy in our country and we would want to get it from the Americans. Imagine how they would treat us and how much they would humiliate the people of Iran. When we say that nuclear energy or - to put it correctly - nuclear technology, the nuclear fuel cycle and the ability to enrich uranium are the absolute rights of our nation, it means that if we do not provide this for our people today, they will beg their enemies and opponents in the future. But our people will not comply with what they say.
They tell us, "You have oil. What do you need nuclear energy for?" Does America not have oil? Why does it have nuclear energy? Just recently, the President of America said, "We should make more investments in nuclear energy". All the advanced countries are moving towards making investments in nuclear energy. Then they say to our people that they should not have it. We have not given in to this coercion and you the people of Iran should know that the officials of the country will not give in to it either. I will not give in to this coercion at any price.
Nuclear energy and nuclear technology is the absolute right of the people of Iran and no one has the right to give up this right. The enemy casts doubts and a number of people unknowingly - and some others knowingly - give fresh impetus to these doubts. The truth of the matter is what I told you.
Today, if you do not gain this right, the people of Iran will regress to decades ago and they will remain backward. No responsible person and no follower of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) will be satisfied with this. And the world accepts that we should have this right.
Now the Security Council has threatened us, as if the Security Council is the end of the world. We have already tasted the threats of the Security Council. During the imposed war - when the Iraqis were thousands of kilometers on our soil - the same Security Council issued a resolution saying that we should end the war, that we should not put up a defense and that we should not resist.
Because it was against the interests of our country, we did not accept. Whenever it is against the interests our country, we do not accept what they say. Our nation has stood firm. Our youth have stood firm. Fortunately, our officials too have stood up against them with enthusiasm. God is behind us and the strength of our country in the future depends on the decision and the determination of our officials and our people.
By Allah's favor, by relying on the great determination of the people and under the authority of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) we will stand up for our rights and we will gain this right with all our hearts and souls. 
Let me benefit from your warm hearts and your warm breath and say a number of duas.
Dear God, by the blessedness of Your greatness and magnificence and by the blessedness of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) bestow Your mercy, Your blessings and Your kindness on these faithful and steadfast people. Dear God, help these people - who appreciate the value of Islam - to achieve victory over the enemies of Islam.
Dear God, smooth the path of this nation and our youth towards a future which our people deserve. Dear God, make the officials of our country become more successful - on a daily basis - in serving the people. Dear God, increase the blessings of Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha on the people of this country on a daily basis.
Make us benefit from the prayers of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake). Raise the position of our dear Imam (r.a.) and our noble martyrs on a daily basis. Make us be among Your righteous servants. Make us render services to these people. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
