
<meta year="2002" title="Sermons Delivered at Eid-al-Fitr Prayers "/>
Ayatollah Khamenei stated that the main outcome of the fasting in the holy month of Ramazan is the deepening of piety and virtue in the hearts and souls of Muslims, which helps them to follow the right path in the face of different temptations and various enticements, which are likely to lead them astray.
Leader of the Islamic Republic further noted:
"One of the important lessons that Muslims should learn from fasting and experiencing hunger during the holy month of Ramazan is that they should have more sympathy for the hungry, the deprived and the poor. This sympathy should be expressed in a willingness to give help to the poor and the needy. Indeed, it is the duty of all Muslims to do their utmost to eliminate poverty and deprivation from society. 
"Almighty Allah says in the holy Qur'an, 'Have you noticed him who rejects the religion? He is the one who treats the orphan with harshness, and does not urge the feeding of the poor.' (107: 1-3)
"These verses clearly indicate that being indifferent and feeling no responsibility toward the sufferings of the poor and the deprived is one of the signs of rejecting the religion. Therefore, fasting during the holy month of Ramazan should help to remind us of this responsibility, which has been entrusted to us by our religion."
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say:
"It is true that the eradication of poverty in any society is only possible by administering social justice and by preventing those who enjoy certain privileges from amassing a fortune through the misappropriation of public funds. It is also true that performing this task is mainly the duty of the government. However, the people also shoulder some heavy responsibilities in this regard.
"In other words, the government can carry out the task of eradicating poverty through the implementation of long-range and medium-term social programs. But the implementation of these programs will surely take quite a while.
"The people should not remain indifferent to the sufferings of the deprived while these programs are being implemented. They should face up to their own responsibilities toward the poor and the needy, rather than wait for these programs to bear fruit."
The Leader also called on the Iranian people to avoid extravagance and refrain from spending money on luxuries, which he described as a major hindrance to giving help to the deprived and the needy.
In the second sermon, Ayatollah Khamenei referred to some issues related to the Islamic world.
The Leader stated that, today, Islamic countries are in need of convergence, congruity and unity more than ever, since the enemies of Islam are intensifying their plots and machinations against the Muslim ummah.
"Although some arrogant powers like the United States are trying to make up for their mistakes, which have caused the exposure of their plots against the Islamic world, by claiming that they bear no hostility toward Muslims, the measures that are currently being taken by U.S. administration and the Zionist regime bear witness to their plots and hostile intentions against Islam and the Muslim ummah," he noted.
Ayatollah Khamenei further stated:
"The fact is that the geographic area that is inhabited by the Muslim ummah is one of the most important parts of the world, since it is quite rich in natural resources, especially mineral resources. The arrogant powers are coveting the national and mineral wealth of Muslim nations, but Islam poses a major obstacle to their illegitimate goals. This is why they are hatching all sorts of plots to subvert this divine religion."
Elsewhere in his remarks, Leader of the Islamic Republic noted:
"One day the arrogant powers were thinking that nothing had remained of Islam and its enlightening teachings due to the spread of their corrupt culture in the world, a culture which promotes licentiousness, hedonism and the pursuit of sensual pleasures. 
"In other words, they were assuming that there was no longer any sign of the Islamic zeal, piety, enthusiasm and motivation among the Muslim nations.
"However, they later found out that they were quite mistaken, since they witnessed the hoisting of the flag of Islamic power and dignity in Iran by the great and honorable Iranian nation, and they also witnessed the Islamic revival and awakening in the whole Muslim world.
"They have noticed that Islam is a brilliant and undeniable reality which is deeply rooted in the hearts of the Muslim nations, and which is posing a major obstacle to their self-serving and domineering objectives. Faced with this reality, they are now hatchings new plots and machinations to subvert this divine religion and to undermine the honor, dignity and power of Muslims. 
"Fortunately, the Muslim nations have now become aware of the evil intentions of the arrogant powers and their hostile attitude toward Islam. Thus, it's no wonder that the results of an opinion poll recently conducted by some Western media indicated that the people in the Islamic countries strongly hate the United States and the Zionist regime."
As regards the domineering and hegemonic attitude of the United States toward Islamic countries, Ayatollah Khamenei stated:
"The United States is trying to impose its hegemony on the Muslim nations by subverting their cultural values and religious tenets, so that they may become submissive and yield to U.S. domination meekly and without protest, and so that they may express no reaction or sensitivity to the plunder of their national wealth and natural resources by the arrogant powers.
"However, the brave, faithful and honorable Iranian people, who have raised the flag of Islam in this country and who firmly adhere to their Islamic and cultural values and revolutionary ideals, would never submit to the illegitimate demands of the United States. Indeed, no threats or intimidation would be able to weaken the strong will and determination of the great Iranian nation."
In conclusion, the Leader expressed his gratitude to the Iranian people for their participation in the grand rallies in support of Palestinians that were held in different cities across the country on the World Day of Quds, or the last Friday in the holy month of Ramazan.
Ayatollah Khamenei stressed that such nationwide rallies and demonstrations clearly indicate that the devout Iranian people, especially the zealous youngsters, are determined to follow the path that was trodden by late Imam Khomeini in accomplishing the lofty ideals and objectives of the Islamic Revolution.
