
<meta year="2007" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Exemplary Students and Activists of Political-Cultural Group"/>
I thank - sincerely and from the bottom of my heart - the friends that delivered a speech in this meeting, whether the friends who represented different groups or the friends who expressed their own opinions. They addressed valuable issues some of which were very interesting to me. By Allah's favor, they may lead to new movements. But what is more interesting than this is the fact that our youth and our students have certain opinions, requests and claims in the area of different issues - whether academic, political or social issues. This is interesting to me.
I have said many times that we should fear the day when our youth and students do not have any motivation to ask new questions, raise new issues and make requests. All our efforts should be focused on developing in the young generation of our country - particularly our scientific youth - the spirit of asking, wanting and making claims in different areas. If this happens, we may not be able to respond to all these requests and claims - this is the case in the short run and we cannot certainly respond to all these requests in the short run - but with these requests, there will definitely be a good future and a bright prospect ahead of us.
Youth should make requests. They should feel that these requests are valuable and fruitful. They should be encouraged to pursue these requests. They should feel that their responsibility is not only to ask a question and chant a mere slogan. They should not say, "We did what we were supposed to do". This should not be the case. Following up the task, studying, thinking about the issue at hand, developing and finding a way to implement it, cooperating with the centers in charge and finally, entering the arena are among the responsibilities and duties of our youth. Besides the spirit of making requests and claims, our youth should gain an understanding of these issues as well. 
The key issue that I deem to discuss first and that was brought up by one of the dear friends in this meeting is about opinions expressed here and there on the issue of the relationship between the Leadership and the people. The point that was raised in this meeting is not the main standard, nor is fabricated interpretations and justifications in this regard. None of these things are true.
What I want to say is what I am saying now. Those opinions that are against the interests of the country and the Islamic Republic should not be expressed and we do not express them. This does not mean that we express an incorrect opinion and then we decide to correct it in a private meeting. This is not the case. There are many issues which should not be expressed by the officials of the country. Expressing them is haraam and they should not do so.
If we speak about all the things that we know about, it is not only you who will hear them. Those who are your enemies will hear them as well. Definitely, what was expressed in this meeting is not true and undoubtedly, some issues should not be expressed. But what should not be said should not be said, not that we distort it and raise doubts in the minds of the people. Let it be clear in advance that what we want to say is what you hear from us in Friday prayer sermons, in public meetings, in student meetings and in different other meetings.
I would like to make another request. The students who delivered a speech as scientific personalities raised good points. Of course, they spoke continuously and quickly and I did not hear all the details. I have written down this point to discuss with you friends: I ask you to write down the points that you have in mind in the form of specific suggestions. This will organize your thoughts. You should give them to us so that by Allah's favor, we can pursue them if possible.
My advice to academic environments is what I just said which is asking and making requests and claims in political and social areas, in scientific areas and in academic areas. And this should be accompanied by reason. From the beginning of the Revolution until today - even in those days when certain inappropriate movements existed in universities and when I went to the University of Tehran to speak to the youth - I have believed that students should avoid extremism. I do not agree with any kind of extremism not matter what orientation students have.
You should follow up issues in a moderate, reasonable and proper way and you should know that your requests are influential. You should not wrongly think, "What is the use of these requests?" They are completely useful. For example, if the slogan of justice - which a certain official chants - is not followed up, no one will raise the flag of justice in society. You should be sure that in such circumstances, no justice-seeking administration and no justice-based discourse - like the one that exists today - will be created. You youth did this. It was you youth who did this. Religious, committed and responsible youth brought it up in universities. When this slogan is repeated, it will take the form of a public discourse and it will show its effects in the people's choices, orientations, slogans and elections.
So, you took one step forward. I see that a number of our academic friends - whether in this meeting or in other meetings before this one - have certain questions in their minds about issues related to justice and combating discrimination and corruption. They say to themselves, "What is the result of constantly speaking about this issue? What happened?" You raised this issue and it produced results, but the expectation to achieve everything that we want in the short run is not possible. Under no circumstances, great ideals are achieved in the short run. Great ideals require continuous work. Tasks should be followed up in a continuous way and we should not become hopeless so that we can produce results. 
Of course, academic environments are fluid environments. That is to say, today you are students, but in five years' time, most of you will not be. Another group of students will replace you. So, there are two environments for continuous work. One is you yourselves. When you get out of academic environments, you should not forget what you used to say in academic groups, in academic environments, in classrooms and in such meetings. You should not forget what you wanted, and what you identified as ideals. You should not forget these things and you should keep them in mind. This is one issue.
One of our disasters is this. People spend some time in certain environments and they take a specific path, but as soon as they drift away from that environment, they become like iron which has come out of a furnace. As long as it remains in the furnace, its color is red. But when it comes out, its color gradually changes into black. Students should not be like this. You should bubble from the inside and you should firmly grow these thoughts in your hearts.
Of course, I should say in parentheses that the way to do this is to connect it with religious faith and beliefs. It is religious faith that does not allow one to forsake divine obligations. Those who managed to fight, endure difficulties and show courage in the face of problems benefitted from this guideline and prescription.
Today, you are students and the academic environment exists. It is a young, warm and attractive environment, one that is suitable for justice, idealism and the like. However, if you forget all these things all of a sudden or gradually when you get out of this environment in the future, this is not appropriate. This is a center for continuous work.
The second environment is universities themselves. Today, you are students and you have certain motivations. This is very good, but you will not be students in the future - in five, six years' time. What will those who replace you inherit? In other words, how will they shape this environment? Today, part of this task falls on your shoulders. One of the things that I have written down to discuss with you friends is this.
We discussed the issue of building scientific personalities. Now, I would like to suggest the issue of building political personalities. I stress that the issue of building political and social personalities should be followed up through promotions and the IRIB. One of the friends pointed this out which is completely correct. I agree with what this friend said and by Allah's favor, it should be carried out. However, part of the issue of building outstanding personalities falls on your shoulders. You should prepare the ground for building political personalities in academic environments.
This task is not in the hands of the administration and non-academic environments. It is in your hands. You should use your minds to see how you can develop and build the environment of promoting discussions and intellectual preparedness, boosting students' hopes and morale and strengthening the bases of political thought in the new class that will replace you. You should do this so that we can be sure that the future academic groups will continue to move in the direction of lofty goals and good ideals. Of course, we should be careful about deviations. We should see and identify deviations.
Another point that I would like to discuss following the issue of making requests on the part of students is that making requests is different from showing enmity. When we said that the officials of the country should not be treated in a hostile way - I would like to stress again that they should not be treated in a hostile way - this does not mean that we should not criticize them and make demands.
The same is true of the issue of the Leadership. One of our dear brothers in the meeting said that we should define anti-Wilayat-e Faqih. Well, it is clear what the word "anti" means. "Anti" means confronting someone and showing enmity to them. It does not mean lack of belief in someone. If I do not believe in you, I am not against you. It is possible that someone does not believe in another person.
Of course, anti-Wilayat is not like a Quranic ayah so much so that we say, "We should specify its boundaries". It is a conventional concept. 
Criticizing the Policies of the Article 44 of the Constitution is not opposition to Wilayat-e Faqih. Criticizing certain opinions of the Leadership is not opposition to the Leader. However, we should not show enmity. Take the case of two clergy who have a very friendly and warm relationship. They are in the same class and they argue with each other. One rejects the other's ideas and vice versa. Rejecting someone's ideas does not mean opposing and confronting them.
These concepts should be distinguished. I have always supported all administrations and I support this administration as well, but this does not mean that I agree with all the details of the tasks that are carried out by it and that I am aware of all these details because this is not necessary.
It is necessary for the Leadership to be aware of those events and incidents that are related to his decisions, orientations, responsibilities and duties. It is not necessary for him to be aware of all the events that occur in the administration, on the market and in ministries. It is neither necessary nor possible. And it is not necessary for him to approve of all of them.
It is possible that there are a number of individuals and tasks in the administration that we trust and approve one hundred percent, but we may not approve of some tasks that they carry out because there is no reason for the Leadership to enter the arena of executive work. This is because responsibilities are clear and officials, ministers, heads of such and such centers and cultural or economic organizations should carry out their own responsibilities. 
So, we do not at all consider criticism to be opposition and enmity. Some people think that because we support the officials of the country and the honorable administration, this supports means that we - including this humble person - should not criticize them. It is possible that we have a critical outlook towards them in some cases. However, this administration is really and truly a diligent and valuable administration and the tasks that are being carried out are in front of our eyes. It would be unfair to deny the significance of these tasks.
In any case, this is what I hope for in academic environments. It will really happen and you should be sure about that because one can see this general movement which is a divine tradition. Wherever faith exists and wherever it is accompanied by diligence, the result will be certain. I see that this will happen.
What we expect from academic environments is scientific progress, the progress of political thought, the development of religious thought and faith, the development of religious understanding and enlightenment, and the conquering of new territories in the area of knowledge, politics and religious understanding in academic environments. 
Of course, this expectation should be fulfilled with the help of experts in each area. You should have experts for scientific work. You should have experts for developing religious understanding. The same is true of political work. You carry out the task and experts guide you. Our universities and academic environments should make genuine and astonishing achievements in all these arenas and by Allah's favor, these achievements will be made. 
Dear God, I entrust these youth - who are, in fact, my children - to you. Dear God, keep them under Your protection, guidance and mercy. Dear God, help the young generation of our country to become the perfect builders of the future of this country. Dear God, approve of them, their movements, their orientations and their actions. Dear God, help our youth succeed in acquiring the kind of knowledge that is accompanied by action - purposeful and fruitful knowledge. Dear God, make the holy heart of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) satisfied and pleased with us. Make the pure souls of our dear martyrs and the immaculate soul of Imam (r.a.) satisfied and pleased with us. Make Iran and the Islamic Republic dearer and more glorious on a daily basis. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
