
<meta year="2002" title="Leader's Speech at an Army Base"/>
This memorable and pleasant visit reminds me of a great many memories of the years of the sacred defense and the time we spent during those years with faithful and devoted army commanders and soldiers.
Undoubtedly, a major part of the honor and dignity reflected on the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic has been due to the self-sacrifice and bravery of the army personnel. Therefore, I hope my today's visit would serve as a token of my warm feelings toward the army and other branches of the armed forces. 
The people of any country view their armed forces as strong fortifications capable of defending them against the enemies and aggressors. During the years of the sacred defense, our armed forces went through this severe test with success, honor and dignity.
In particular, our ground forces displayed so much self-sacrifice and carried out such wonderful operations during the eight years of the Iraqi imposed war that they amazed and astonished both the enemies and friends alike.
Our dignified martyrs and disabled veterans as well as other faithful and devout army soldiers bear witness to the laudable bravery, resistance and self-sacrifice of our ground forces during the years of the sacred defense.
The day when the Iraqi regime waged a full-scale war on our country, our enemies were assuming that there was no obstacle, or at least no major hindrance, to their military aggression. However, contrary to the assumptions of the enemies, our armed forces resisted the Iraqi aggressors like an indestructible barrier.
Consequently, although the Iraqi regime was fully supported by almost all superpowers, its eight years of military aggression against the Islamic Republic yielded no results, and our faithful and devoted armed forces, supported by the Iranian people, managed to preserve our county's territorial integrity and national sovereignty, and the Iraqi aggressors were forced to admit defeat and retreat. This victory reflected great honor and dignity on our brave and strong nation.
This was the first time in the past two centuries that our armed forces had managed to foil the military aggression of our enemies with full honor and dignity. What attaches greater significance to this victory is the fact that the Iraqi aggressors were fully supported by almost all big powers of the time. 
By the grace Allah, the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic, including the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps and the Basiji forces, are quite capable of repelling any threats to our country.
At the present time that the arrogant powers are trying to plunge the world into a devastative war under the pretext of promoting freedom, democracy and human rights in order to further their own illegitimate interests, expand their sphere of influence and dominate oil wells in the world, it is the responsibility of nations to be vigilant, close ranks and increase their power. The armed forces, in particular, shoulder a heavy responsibility in this regard.
Today, the oil-rich Middle East region is the target of all kinds of plots and machinations, since the arrogant powers and industrialized countries need oil, which is abundant in this region. The arrogant powers are posing a constant threat to the security of the Middle Eastern counties and interfering in their internal affairs. These powers are also trying to foment discord and division between the Arab and Islamic countries in this region, which belongs to Muslims, in order to weaken their unity and further their own illegitimate interests.
The victims of the covetous and expansionist policies of the arrogant powers are those nations who are not able to defend their identity and spiritual values. You have noticed how much suffering has been inflicted on the oppressed Iraqi and Afghan nations over the past few years! It is only defenseless people and civilians that are the main victims of the self-serving policies of the arrogant powers.
However, if nations preserve their identity and turn to their own abundant resources, they will be able to resist their enemies. They may undergo some hardships and sufferings in the short term, which is the price that they should pay for their independence. But in the long run they will be able to make up for their losses through their perseverance and strong will and determination.
Under the current sensitive circumstances, our nation needs, more than ever, to make itself powerful and invulnerable both materially and spiritually. A part of this national power depends on economic, cultural and political matters, but a major part of it emanates from the armed forces, which should constantly try to improve and boost their defensive, combat, logistic and maintenance capabilities and increase their technological abilities to produce their necessary equipment. It is also up to military commanders to inculcate their soldiers with a great sense of responsibility.
Fortunately, the Army of the Islamic Republic has pious, dedicated and competent commanders, and all army units are made up of faithful and committed soldiers, for which we should be thankful to Almighty Allah. 
In conclusion, what I would like to stress here is that you should make use of every opportunity to increase your preparedness, since lack of preparedness always poses a major threat to our country and to the honor of our armed forces. Being prepared, both materially and spiritually, is a necessity, and this preparedness should always be maintained and increased.
I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow His grace, guidance and blessings on all of you, our dear servicemen, and to assist all of us in performing our duties and responsibilities in the best possible and the most effective manner. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
