
<meta year="2007" title="Leader's Speech at Imam Ridha's (a.s.) Shrine"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem Mustafa Muhammad, and upon his immaculate, pure, chosen and infallible household, especially the one remaining with Allah on earth.
"Our Lord, on You do we rely, and to You do we turn, and to You is the eventual coming." [The Holy Quran, 4: 60]
There are two occasions for congratulation on this year's Eid. The first occasion is Norouz and the second occasion is the birthday anniversary of the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.), Hazrat Muhammad ibn Abdullah. And we Iranians consider Norouz an auspicious Eid.  
Our people start each new year with remembrance of God and they ask Allah the Exalted to transform their conditions to the best of conditions. Besides these things, the spiritual blessings of Muharram and Safar have been added to the auspiciousness of this year's Norouz. You dear audience who have gathered in this place and have been blessed with the opportunity to visit Imam Musa ar-Ridha's (a.s.) shrine, have received more blessings. And this is an opportunity for me to elaborate some of the issues that will, by Allah's favor, prove useful for us at the beginning of the year.
The beginning of each year is a good opportunity to strengthen our national determination, to bless our life for a year. If all of us, the people of Iran, focus our efforts on having a year full of blessings, Allah the Exalted will definitely help us. Of course, the essence of this great national determination is pure intentions, a determination to satisfy God and to follow the straight path, an understanding of one's conditions and position in the world and the challenges that lie in front of one's people, and finally delineating the outlines of confronting these challenges. This is the requirement for the success of a nation that is alive. Such a nation should develop an appropriate understanding of its conditions and its position and make appropriate plans on the basis of this understanding so that it becomes determined to confront whatever that might naturally come up. I would like to take this opportunity and discuss these issues during the few hours that we will have in this meeting.
The main point is that our nation and our people have specified a great goal for ourselves and we have pursued this goal in the decades following the victory of the Islamic Revolution. This is a point that we should always keep in mind. No matter how carefully we consider our situation, we feel that we have the necessary capabilities to reach these two goals. This great goal is to bring about glory for Islamic Iran, to become a role model for Muslim nations - both in terms of the material aspect and in terms of the spiritual aspect. This means that our nation should improve, both in terms of the material aspect and in terms of the spiritual aspect. It means that our nation should have national independence, national honor, national capacities. It means that our nation should be able to make use of all of its capacities. It means that our nation should enjoy welfare and social justice. Such a nation can thus become a role model for all Muslim - and even non-Muslim - communities. The Iranian nation wants to be free, affluent and pious. Our nation wants to develop Iran. This is the goal of the Iranian nation.
As far as this goal is concerned, there are no disagreements. There are no partisan and political debates and disagreements in this regard. This is a goal for the entire Iranian nation. We want to have a developed country. We want to be a free and proud nation. We want to make the best of our national capacities. We want to be a pioneering nation. We want to carry the flag of social justice. We want to carry the flag of Islamic faith at the vanguard of all Muslim nations. This is a goal that the entire Iranian nation is enthusiastic about. It is possible to achieve this goal. Both the knowledge we have developed of our national capacities and the experiences we have accumulated give us this hope. 
The Iranian nation is a talented and steadfast nation. It enjoys religious and national pride. It deeply believes in Islam. It loves its homeland. These are the kind of things that give us the hope and confidence that our nation is capable of achieving this goal. This goal is not out of our reach. Our experiences also show the same thing.
As a result of the domination of corrupt and dependent governments, we had been pushed out of the arena of global competition for many years. The Iranian nation, which was once a pioneer in the arena of knowledge and culture, reached a point where it was pushed out of the arena of global competition around two hundred years ago - when a scientific and political race started in the world - as a result of the domination of oppressive kings and powerful people who had been isolated from the people. When a nation is pushed out of a race in which all nations participate, its capabilities are naturally undermined and its achievements become insignificant. Take a sports team that is strong, dynamic and hardworking. Imagine that such a team was prevented from taking part in tournaments and competitions. It is just natural that its capabilities would be undermined. This is what they did to our nation.
In spite of the fact that dependent, corrupt and incompetent governments and oppressive kings had imposed these conditions on our nation, as soon as the Islamic Revolution opened up this path in front of our nation and gave it the opportunity to enter the arena of global competition, our nation accomplished great achievements. Today our nation is well-known in the world both in scientific areas and in political areas. Our nation is an outstanding nation among other nations. In scientific areas, we are an advanced nation, considering the limited time we have had. Of course, it is not possible to make up for two hundred years of backwardness in twenty, thirty years. However, over the past twenty-something years, we have made progress at an extremely accelerated rate. Today you can see that our youth have achieved advances in the area of nuclear technology, in the area of stem cells, in the area of treating spinal injuries and tens of other areas. And if our people are clearly informed of these advances, they will definitely become happier. Our outstanding scientific figures have shone in the world and they have made the people of the world praise them.  
The same is true of the arena of political competition. Today the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran is popular in political areas, both in the region and in the world. People are eager to hear what the Islamic Republic has to say. On their trips to other countries, our government officials stand out among government officials of other countries. They are outstanding in international meetings and in terms of their positions. These conditions show that our nation has the potential to enter these international areas and to make progress. 
Our nation has managed to introduce new concepts into the culture of international politics. The world was not familiar with the concept of religious democracy. Today religious democracy is a popular concept and slogan among all Muslim nations. The world was not familiar with the definition of the system of domination. It was the Iranian nation that defined this concept and introduced it into the culture of international politics. Religion-based politics, religion-based law, religion-based management of national affairs - all of these things are new concepts that have been introduced by our nation. Therefore, we can participate in international competitions - scientific competitions, political competitions, industrial competitions, economic competitions, cultural competitions - and hope that we can become successful in the short run and outstanding in the long run. These are the conditions of our nation.
However, the path that the Iranian nation is determined to traverse is not one that is smooth and free of obstacles. We will definitely face challenges on this path. We have two types of enemies. Today I will show you the existence of two types of enemies so that we can discuss what we should do against these enemies. A nation should identify its enemies. It should know the enemy's plan and prepare itself to confront it. We have two types of enemies: inner enemies and enemies in the outside world. Our inner enemies are more dangerous. Who are these inner enemies? Our inner enemies are the bad characteristics that we might be suffering from. Laziness, lack of eagerness for work, hopelessness, extreme selfishness, suspicion of others, pessimism about the future, lack of self-confidence on a personal or national level - these are maladies. These inner enemies will make things difficult for us. Our enemies in the outside world have always tried to spread these microbes inside the Iranian society: "You are incapable", "your future is dark", "your prospects are bleak", "you are in serious trouble", "you are finished." They have been trying to make our nation hopeless, lifeless, unconfident and lazy. They have been trying to make our nation wait for the enemy to provide its needs. These are our inner enemies. Over the years that led to the beginning of the Islamic movement in our country, these things were the main afflictions that our nation was suffering from. If a nation suffers from such maladies, it will not be possible for it to make progress. If the people of a nation are lazy, if the people of a nation are hopeless, if the people of a nation lack self-confidence, if the people of a nation are isolated from one another, if the people of a nation are suspicious of one another, if the people of a nation are hopeless about the future, that nation will not be able to move forward. These things are like termites that eat away at the foundations of a nation. They are like worms that are inside bad fruits. It is necessary to fight these characteristics. Our nation should be optimistic, self-confident, hopeful about the future and interested in progress. Our nation should have faith in the spiritual characteristics that will help it on this path. Thankfully, today our nation enjoys such self-confidence and hope. It is necessary to increase these characteristics. If we manage to destroy these enemies inside us and in the culture of our society, our enemies in the outside world will not be able to harm us in the slightest way.
As for the enemies in the outside world, the international system of hegemony is the enemies of the goal we have specified for ourselves. These enemies are the same entities that we call "arrogant powers of the world". The arrogant powers of the world and the system of hegemony divide the world into hegemons and those who accept hegemony. If a nation wants to defend its interests against hegemonic powers, they will be hostile towards that nation. They will put pressure on it. They will try to break down its resistance. These are the enemies of nations that want to achieve independence, dignity, honor and progress, nations that refuse to give in to hegemons. They are enemies that exist in the outside world. Today the examples of these enemies are the network of global Zionism and the current government of the United States of America. Of course, this enmity is not a recent development. Methods keep changing, but the policy of opposing the Iranian nation has been there since the victory of the Islamic Revolution. They have exerted as much pressure as they possibly could, but their efforts have been futile. Their pressures have not weakened the Iranian nation. Their pressures have not succeeded in forcing the Iranian nation to retreat. None of their measures have been successful, neither their economic sanctions, nor their military threats, nor their political pressure, nor their psychological warfare. Today we are far more powerful than we used to be 15, 20, 27 years ago. This shows that the enemy has been unsuccessful in his efforts against the Iranian nation and the Islamic Republic, but his enmity will continue.
Today there is a contradiction in the world. In the eyes of Muslim nations, in the eyes of the regional nations, in the eyes of Asian nations, in the eyes of African nations, in the eyes of Latin American nations, in the eyes of the Middle Eastern nations, the Iranian nation is a brave nation, a nation that defends justice and truth and stands up against bullying. This is the way they think of the Iranian nation. They praise the Iranian nation. But the Iranian nation and the Islamic Republic, which are praised so much by other nations, are accused by the bullying powers of violating human rights. The bullying powers accuse us of threatening global security and supporting terrorism. This is a contradiction, a contradiction between what the people believe and what the global powers wish. This contradiction is a threat against the system of global hegemony. They are drifting away from the people on a daily basis. This has created a widening hole in the structure of the western liberal democracy. And this hole will grow bigger on a daily basis. After all, propaganda campaigns of the arrogant powers can only hide the truth for a while. They cannot hide the truth forever. Nations are becoming more vigilant on a daily basis. Consider the fact that when the President of the Iranian nation travels to African and South American countries, the people of those countries shout slogans in favor of him. They hold demonstrations to support him. They express their support for him. But when the President of America travels to South American countries - which are America's backyard - the people of those countries set the flag of America on fire to greet him. This means that the foundations of liberal democracy are shaking, the kind of democracy that the west - lead by America - represent in the world. The contradiction between their demands and the tendencies and observations of the people is growing on a daily basis.
They claim to support democracy. They claim to support human rights. They claim to support global security. They claim to support a global fight against terrorism. But their evil nature shows that they have a tendency towards warmongering, a tendency towards violating the rights of nations, a strong urge and an insatiable thirst for the energy resources of the world. Nations can see these things. Liberal democracy and America - which is the standard-bearer of liberal democracy in the world - are being disgraced in the eyes of the people of different countries on a daily basis. On the other hand, the honor of Islamic Iran is increasing. The people of the world understand that the Americans' claims of supporting human rights are false. 
One example is their behavior towards our country. During the time of taghut, when the Pahlavi regime was in power, the Americans had full control over Iran. The Americans had spread their domination over every part of Iran. They used to establish military bases in Iran in order to spread their domination over the Arab nations in the region. They wanted to keep Arab countries under close watch from their military bases in Iran. Iran was an ally of Israel. The worst kind of dictatorship had been established in our country. Revolutionary activists used to be tortured in prisons. In every part of the country, in the city of Mashhad, in Tehran and in different other cities of the country, the agents of the Pahlavi regime were suppressing the people. They used to plunder our oil resources. They used to plunder our national sources of wealth in order to line their own pockets or safeguard the interests of foreigners. The Iranian nation was prohibited from taking part in the scientific and industrial race that had started in the world. They used to humiliate the people. At that time, Iran was the closest ally of America in the region and Iranian officials were popular with the Americans. The protests against violations of human rights and democratic principles by the Pahlavi regime were totally dismissed. 
With this clear democracy which is exceptional in the world and with the strong bond that exists between the people and government officials, today Iran is a free country. From the viewpoint of America and American politicians, this Iran is an unpleasant country. This shows the opposition of the arrogant powers to the realities that exist in the world. Of course, the Americans have not benefitted from this enmity and they will never benefit from it in the future either. The Iranian nation will become more powerful on a daily basis and the values of the Revolution will become fresher and more outstanding on a daily basis.
We have certain responsibilities in the face of these two types of enemies. First of all, it is necessary to identify the enemy and then it is necessary to uncover its plan. Today our enemies in the outside world have prepared plans for the Iranian nation. We specify our five-year policies and twenty-year strategic plans in order to specify our path. The same is true of our enemies: they have their own plans and policies for us. We need to uncover their plans and policies.
I would like to divide into three categories the plans that the arrogant powers of the world have prepared against the Iranian nation: psychological warfare, economic warfare and efforts to confront the progress and scientific power of Iran. The hostilities of the arrogant powers towards our nation can be divided into these three broad categories. Now I would like to briefly speak about each of these categories.
What is psychological warfare? The goal of psychological warfare is to intimidate. Who are they trying to intimidate? It is not possible to intimidate a nation. It is not possible to intimidate a massive gathering of people. So who are they trying to intimidate? They want to intimidate our government officials and political personalities - or those whom I have described as our "elites". These are the people they want to intimidate. They want to bribe those who can be bribed. They want to undermine the will of the people. They want to change the people's understanding of the realities of their society. This is the goal of psychological warfare. If a person who is completely healthy is repeatedly told that he is sick, he will feel unwell a little. The opposite is also true. If a person who is ill is repeatedly told that he is healthy, he will feel healthy. Through suggestion, they want to distort the realities of our country in the eyes of our people. Our nation is a talented and capable nation. Our nation enjoys enormous capacities and enormous sources of natural wealth. Such a nation can become a pioneer. There is no reason why such a nation should be hopeless. 
They want to distort the realities and make our nation hopeless. They want to undermine the people's trust in our government officials. If the people of a country trust their government officials, it is a great blessing for that country. They want to take away this great blessing by promoting distrust among our people. They want to make our people distrust both each other and their government officials. By spreading rumors, they want to threaten our people with sanctions and violence. Through their propaganda, they want to present the plaintiff as the defendant. Today America is the defendant and nations of the world are the plaintiffs. Today it is America that should answer for its actions. America is accused of arrogance, colonialism, warmongering, military occupation and seditious activities. We are the plaintiffs. They want to assume the role of the plaintiff and force the Iranian nation to play the role of the defendant. Inside America, there are serious violations of human rights and there is insecurity. They themselves announced that 13 million American citizens had been arrested in the year 2003. They issue official warrants for torture and wiretapping. After the September 11 events, they interrogated millions of people. There was such insecurity within the borders of America. And outside their borders, they have prisons such as Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo and other secret prisons that they have in Europe and other places. They must be held responsible. They are the defendant. They have been accused of violating human rights. Yet they claim to support human rights and they hold the people of Iran - or wherever they like - responsible for violating human rights. They are the ones who are promoting terrorism. These are examples of their psychological warfare.
Part of the enemy's psychological warfare is trying to fan the flames of internal conflicts. They highlight and strengthen ethnic, partisan, business-related and sectarian disagreements, including the Shia-Sunni issue. And they have a number of agents and mercenaries inside the country who use different methods to advance their goals in the country. They spread rumors. They level allegations against Iran regarding the issue of Iraq. Those who have occupied Iraq, those who have humiliated the Iraqi nation, those who have insulted and humiliated Iraqi women, men and youth in different ways, the American and English troops who are treating the people of Iraq in the worst possible way - they are the same people who are accusing Iran of inferring in the internal affairs of Iraq. At a time when the American government and many of other western governments were supporting the ill-fated Saddam Hussein and his Ba'ath Party, the Iranian nation used to receive Iraqi refugees with open arms. Liberated Iraqi men used to come to our country and we used to protect them against Saddam. Today the same people are in power in Iraq. Terrorist activities in Iraq are being instigated by the intelligence services of America, England and Israel. The fratricide that is going on in Iraq is not the result of a Shia-Sunni war. This is because Shia and Sunni Muslims have been living in Iraq for centuries and there has never been a war between them. Many Shia people in Iraq have married Sunni people and they have been living together peacefully. It is the occupation forces who have given rise to these terrorist activities. They are the ones who benefit from this insecurity.
They spread rumors about Iran's efforts to promote Shia Islam. This is one part of their psychological warfare: first of all, they want to foment discord among the people of Iran and second, they want to foment discord between the Iranian nation and other Muslim nations. It has been America's policy to instill fear of the Islamic Republic into the hearts of our neighbors. Of course, some of them have been vigilant enough to realize that this is a plot. But some others might make a mistake and fall into the trap of this American plot. We have always extended a hand of friendship to our neighbors in the Persian Gulf region, which contains a major portion of global oil reserves. We still extend a hand of friendship to them and it is our belief that the Persian Gulf states should enter into a defense pact and that they should cooperate with each other. Defending this important region should not be consigned to America, England, foreigners and greedy powers of the world. We ourselves should adopt measures to ensure the security of this region. And this is possible through cooperation among the Persian Gulf states.
I would like to take this opportunity to give a piece of friendly advice to the political elements who are active in our country. They should take care not to make comments and adopts positions that would advance the enemy's goals in this psychological warfare. They should take care not to help the enemy. Today anybody who makes the people hopeless is helping the enemy. Today anybody who makes the people lose their confidence in themselves, in their government officials and in the future is helping the enemy. Today anybody who fans the flames of internal conflicts - regardless of the nature of these conflicts - is helping the enemy. Writers, speakers and those who can speak to the people should be careful. They must not let the enemy take advantage of them. The enemy's psychological warfare is the most important part of the enemy's battle against the Iranian nation. 
Economic warfare is another part of their efforts. They want to pressure the Iranian nation in economic issues. I would say that the Iranian nation has the opportunity to engage in economic activities. After the policies specified in Article 44 of the Constitution were announced for implementation to the organizations in charge and the executive branch is, and should be, making determined efforts to implement these policies, the ground has been prepared for economic activities, not just for wealthy people, but for ordinary citizens as well. In the year 1386 and maybe over the next two years, the attitude of the executive branch and those who are active in the country should be economic in nature. We can help our economy blossom. They threaten us with sanctions. Sanctions cannot harm us. Have we not been under sanctions so far? We achieved nuclear energy while we were under sanctions. We achieved scientific advances while we were under sanctions. These widespread measures for constructing the country were adopted while we were under sanctions. Sanctions might even benefit us under certain circumstances because they might make us more determined to make efforts. In this year, which starts from today, and even over the next couple of years, we should adopt an economic attitude and focus on economic matters. The policies specified in Article 44 of the Constitution should benefit everybody. Those who can make investments and even those who can invest with companies - there are certain ways for them to do so. The people in general and those who are active in different professions can make investments. They can be partners and make joint investments. Apart from "the justice shares" [an initiative introduced by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's administration] which includes approximately ten million people - namely, the bottom two deciles of our society - there are certain ways in which the rest of the people can also make use of these policies.
Our government officials should tell the people how to take part in economic activities. These policies can result in production of wealth for our society. From an Islamic point of view, nothing is wrong with production of wealth. Production of wealth is different from plundering sources of wealth that belong to other people. Sometimes people might try to steal from what belongs to the people and some other times people may try to become wealthy in an illegal way. These things are prohibited. However, production of wealth is recommended in Islam and in sharia as long as it is done through legal methods. It is alright to produce wealth, but this should not be accompanied by extravagance. Islam tells us to produce wealth, but advises us against extravagance. Extremist consumerism is not acceptable in Islam. Whatever wealth is produced should be used as a means to produce further wealth. Wealth should neither be allowed to remain dormant and unproductive, nor should it be spent extravagantly on unnecessary things. Try to generate wealth while keeping these points in mind. Public wealth belongs to the entire nation and everybody benefits from it. This is the essence of Article 44 of the Constitution and the policies that have been specified in it. The people's sources of income, particularly the lower classes' sources of income, should be diversified. The people should be able to have different sources of income. This is a long stride towards social welfare. 
Regarding efforts that are made to confront our scientific progress, one important example is the issue of nuclear energy. In political discussions and elsewhere, they say that western governments do not want Iran to achieve nuclear technology, but what they want does not matter. Did we ask anybody for permission before we decided to achieve nuclear technology? The Iranian nation did not ask anybody's permission before entering this arena, so nobody can say that they have denied our nation permission. It does not matter what they want. The Iranian nation wants to achieve nuclear energy and this is what matters. As I said in this place in a meeting on the first day of last year, nuclear energy is a necessity for the country. It is a long term need. Today if our government officials fail to try their best to achieve nuclear energy, future generations will blame them. Iran and its people need nuclear energy and nuclear technology to survive, not to build nuclear weapons. Some people sit down together and repeat the same things that the enemy says. They say, "Why is it necessary to achieve nuclear technology?" Is it alright if we jeopardize the future of the country and completely ignore the future needs of the country? Do our government officials have the right to betray our future generations?
Today we produce oil and use it to fulfill our needs, but one day our oil reserves will run out. Will it be alright if our people have to beg other countries for energy in order to run their factories, keep themselves warm, provide lighting and fulfill their daily life needs? Do our government officials have the right to do this? Certain people are repeating what the enemy says. The opponents of achieving nuclear technology, who praise nationalization of the oil industry by Dr. Mosaddeq and the late Ayatollah Kashani, are saying the same things that the opponents of Dr. Mosaddeq and the late Ayatollah Kashani were saying at that time. This is while nuclear energy is more important than nationalization of the oil industry. These things are unacceptable. We moved forward on this path and we relied on our own innovation. Our government officials did not do anything illegal in the process. All of our activities are being closely watched by the International Atomic Energy Agency and nothing is wrong with this. We have no problem with the fact that our activities should be under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Creating uproar and pressuring the Iranian nation and using the UN Security Council as an instrument will prove detrimental to the powers that have deployed their forces against the Iranian nation. I would like to announce that up until today whatever we have done has been in keeping with international regulations, but if they decide to break the rules and use the UN Security Council as an instrument to deny the Iranian nation this indisputable right, we can - and we will - break the rules as well. If they decide to use threats, coercion and violence, they should know that the people of Iran and their government officials will undoubtedly make use of all their capacities to harm the enemies who decide to attack it.
What I said were the recommendations of a servant of the Iranian nation to the people of Iran. This is my advice: pay attention to the slogan that I introduced this year - namely, "National Unity and Islamic Solidarity." National unity means that the people of Iran should be unified and Islamic solidarity means that Muslim nations should support each other. The Iranian nation should strengthen its relations with Muslim nations. If we want to have national unity and Islamic solidarity, we should rely on the primary principles that we agree about and we should not get bogged down on the secondary principles that we disagree about.
My next recommendation is that our honorable people - particularly our youth - should not lose their self-confidence. Dear youth, dear youth of Iran, you have the ability to do whatever you want. You have the ability to accomplish great achievements. You can help your country reach the peak of perfection and glory. Confidence in yourselves, confidence in your government officials, confidence in the executive branch - these are what the enemies want to destroy. The enemies want our people to distrust the executive branch, which is in charge of running the country. Make efforts to foil this plot. I support the current administration. So far, I have always supported the administrations that have been elected by the people and I will do so in the future as well. I support the current administration in particular. This support is not random. It is based on valid reasons and calculations. First of all, the executive branch enjoys a very important position within the system of the Islamic Republic and in the political system of our country. Second, the executive branch has to shoulder the majority of the responsibilities. Finally, these religious positions and these tendencies towards revolutionary and Islamic values are very valuable. The hard work, the efforts to develop a bond with the people, the trips to different provinces of the country and the justice-based and populist orientation - these things are very precious and I appreciate them. I support the current administration because of these things. Of course, my support is based on certain calculations, and in return I have certain expectations of the administration. My first expectation is that our executive officials should not grow tired. They should not lose their faith in God. They should have faith in God and in the people. They should preserve their populist nature. They should take care not to fall into the trap of luxurious lifestyles. They must be careful. They should not get involved in partisan hostilities. They should not waste their time on political disputes. They should work with all their heart and soul for the sake of our people. They should follow and implement whatever they promise the people.  
We need to open our eyes. We need to rely on Allah the Exalted. The Iranian nation is a great and capable nation. It has great goals and it is following a path that will lead to these goals. I hope Allah the Exalted constantly bestows His blessings on you dear people of Iran. I hope Allah the Exalted showers you will His grace. By Allah's favor, today - which is the first day of the year 1386 - is the beginning of a year that is full of blessings for the Iranian nation. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
