
<meta year="2002" title="Leader's Address to Academics"/>
I feel very pleased that, this year also, I had an opportunity to spend a few hours in the holy month of Ramazan with the academics and university professors who constitute the learned and intellectual class of our society. I consider spending time and exchanging views with scholars and those in charge of scientific and educational affairs as very pleasant and beneficial. 
In fact, the best hours of my life, which is usually spent in dealing with political and managerial affairs, are the hours that I spend on scientific work. Therefore, presence at a gathering of academics and intellectuals is itself a pleasant occasion for me.
Besides, considering that those attending such gatherings usually bring up important educational and scientific issues and the problems related to our universities and research centers, the relevant officials will become informed of the current trend of scientific progress in our country as well as the problems or obstacles that exist in this regard. 
Thus, they will take the necessary measures to solve those problems or overcome those obstacles, in the same way that the issues which were brought up in our previous meetings over the past few years have been followed up, and positive results have been obtained.
Therefore, I hope that our meeting today will also yield positive results and prove fruitful and beneficial, especially to our universities and research centers as well as to our whole academic community. 
* * *
The conclusion that I have reached from your remarks is that relationship between our government organs and our universities is a necessity. This relationship should be established in a systematic manner and in accordance with a carefully formulated blueprint.
I have so far been mostly advising the officials in charge of the industrial and technological sector to strengthen their relationship with our universities, but it seems that relations between all our government organs and our centers of research and higher education should be expanded and strengthened.
If our government organs, especially our decision-making, policymaking and managerial bodies, establish extensive and systematic relations with universities and research centers, the participation of scholars, intellectuals and experts on political, cultural and educational affairs in policymaking and decision-making process will surely yield positive results for the country. 
What I would like to stress here is what I have often mentioned at different gatherings attended by academics, and that is the fact that we are lagging behind developed countries in science and technology. In other words, there is a scientific and technological gap between our country and other developed states. Nevertheless, I strongly believe that we are quite capable of filling this gap, because our talented youth have great potential for scientific and technological progress and development.
But it should also be mentioned that talent by itself is not enough, and endeavors and great perseverance are also necessary, especially on the part of scholars, intellectuals and professors. 
This does not mean that relevant government organs shoulder no responsibility in this regard, nor does it mean that no measures should be taken by the government to solve the problems of scholars and professors.
It is rightly expected from intellectuals, scholars and professors to do their utmost to promote research and raise the standards of science and technology in our country. In other words, an educational and scientific movement, which I have described as a software movement, should be launched in our country. Of course government organs also shoulder heavy responsibilities in this regard, and they should face up to their responsibilities.
As far as the necessary budget for research is concerned, I have instructed the relevant officials, including those in the Expediency Council, the Minister of Science, Research and Technology and our esteemed president, to regard research as one of the first three or four priorities to which budget should be allocated.
It is quite clear that without promoting research, we cannot expect the standards of science and technology to be raised in our country. Thus, the relevant government organs, such as the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology and the Management and Planning Organization should take this issue more seriously and make the necessary decisions. The Majlis also should make the necessary legislation in this regard.
Nonetheless, it should be stressed that the major role in promoting research and raising the level of science and technology in our country is played by university professors themselves. Therefore, I would like to ask our esteemed professors, who are the standard-bearers of research, science and technology in our country, to perform their duties and responsibilities in the best possible manner.
In my meetings with different groups of students, especially with the educational elite, a number of students usually complain that the lectures given by some of their professors are not up-to-date and do not fulfill their scientific needs. They also complain that university professors do not spend enough time with their students. What they mean is that their professors only give lectures, without spending any more time with their students.
I would like to ask our honorable professors to establish closer relations with their students in order to inspire them to greater efforts and so as to motive them to work on research projects. Furthermore, scientific discussions between professors and students will also be of great benefit to students in carrying out their projects.
As far as relations between our government organs and our universities and research centers are concerned, if government officials consolidate their ties with centers of research and higher education, they will avail themselves of expert knowledge. Thus, they will be able to solve their problems more easily. Universities and research centers will also benefit from this relationship.
I made a note of the major issues that were brought up and the suggestions that were made by the esteemed professors at this gathering, and I will surely instruct the relevant officials to take due measures with regard to these suggestions and issues. 
I once again thank you, the dear brothers and sisters, for attending this gathering and for expressing your beneficial views.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
