
<meta year="2008" title="Leader's Address to Army Cadets"/>
 
I would like to congratulate you dear youth on your entrance into the glorious Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The uniform you are wearing is the manifestation of glory. That is because your presence, services, and prominent human characteristics as the soldiers of Islam are a reassurance to the nation and your sacred homeland.
In all countries the armed forces are one of the most important elements that contribute to the national power of countries. This glory and this manifestation of national power will be twice as valuable and important when they are not manifested through weapons only. Weapons are important. An armed man is better able to defend himself. However, the spiritual power of a man is more important than his weapons. Spiritual power turns national power into a genuine and inexhaustible source of power. With its armed men, its armed youth, and its valorous soldiers - whose hearts are enlightened by faith and whose wills are strengthened by the power of their faith - a nation can gain such power that is rare in the world and even in human history. This shows the importance of your role. 
Within the framework of the Islamic Republic, the Armed Forces do not display their grandeur and power only through their weapons. Besides military power, our Armed Forces enjoy spiritual power that is dependant on their faith. The Iranian soldiers, Iranian armed forces, and the armed Iranian youth take on this role and remain vigilant for the sake of God, humanity, and promotion of monotheism as well as defending our noble values. In the materialistic modern world and throughout history some armies have been formed in order to satisfy the greed of the powerful. Modern armed forces throughout the world have been used by the superpowers as a tool for bullying. However, the Iranian armed forces are prepared to lay down their lives for the sake of human virtues. Our armed forces are being trained in order to promote human virtues and divine values. Our armed forces resist in the battlefields in order to promote these values. That is what will bring about the final victory for us. You must preserve this quality. 
Today, astonishing realities are being revealed to the people of the world. People of the world were witness to the fact that the Israeli army - which was armed to its teeth - was forced to admit that it had been defeated by the faithful and brave youth of Hezbollah. The Israeli army that had managed to defeat all Arab armies was forced to admit its ignominious defeat against the faithful youth of Hezbollah. They were forced to acknowledge that the Israeli army is too weak to stand up to the power of the faithful youth [of Hezbollah]. That indicates the superiority of spiritual power over material power. Our dear youth - who enjoy both military and spiritual power and who are serving at the Army, the Army of the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution, the Basij Resistance Force, the police force, and the different parts of the Islamic Republic's Armed Forces - enjoy an exceptional privilege compared with other armed forces throughout the world. This is due to your faith. You must appreciate this. 
As the people who have been entrusted with the duty of defending the nation, you are being trained to serve your country. You are treading such a path, and that is the future you have determined for yourselves. Our people support our Armed Forces. They consider the Armed Forces as being an integral part of the nation. According to our prominent religious figures, you are a strong fortress for the nation. You must keep this in mind throughout the different stages of your training and service. You are the strong fortress of our nation, a nation that rose up for the sake of God and pushed back the enemies - who were armed with the most advanced weapons - by relying on its faith, strength, valor, and devotion. Today all the enemies who believed that the Islamic Republic could not resist their opposition admit that the Islamic Republic is the strongest government. You are the strongest Armed Forces in the world. This power is the result of your strong faith. You must appreciate this faith and try to strengthen it. 
The responsibility of a soldier in the Islamic Republic's Armed Forces is to learn, be disciplined and vigilant, and exercise sincerity and spirituality. You must try to have all of these qualities. You must make the best of your youth and try to achieve these great virtues. You are going through the best years of your life. You can be one of the best servants of God and one of the greatest men of your time through achieving the virtues that are required of devoted and faithful people. The Islamic Republic's Army has always been in need of men who are prepared to shoulder heavy and important responsibilities. Thankfully, the Islamic Republic has so far benefitted from the services of these men. In future, it is you who have to shoulder this heavy responsibility. 
I pray to Allah the Exalted to help you - who represent the best soldiers of Islam and the best men of your time - achieve spiritual growth and transcendence. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
