
<meta year="2008" title="Leader's Speech to Officials of the Executive Branch "/>
I pray to God to make our behavior, speech, and actions closer to what is satisfactory to Him.
First of all, I would like to congratulate all you dear brothers and sisters as well as all those who are active in the administration at various levels of management on the occasion of government week. I would also like to pay homage to the memory of the martyrs, whose names have, by Allah's favor, blessed government week. Mentioning the names of the two great martyrs Bahonar and Rajai - these two esteemed brothers who were the true manifestation of knowledge and practice in government week - is a valuable and symbolic act. That is to say, being responsible for different sectors of the country, we must model our behavior on the same values that gave distinguished characteristics to those two dear martyrs. 
I deem it necessary to express my heartfelt appreciation to all administration officials, the esteemed president, cabinet members, high-ranking officials of the executive branch, and all the managers serving in the executive branch at different levels. That is because you are making sincere efforts for the sake of the public. May Allah the Exalted bless your efforts and bestow His rewards on you both in this world and in the hereafter. Divine rewards in this world are realized in the form of the effects of your efforts being tangible in the lives of the people. And by Allah's grace, I hope that they live a happy life due to your services. 
I also advise you to appreciate this opportunity to serve the public. Having the opportunity to serve the general public is an ideal opportunity. This is a great opportunity to serve the nation and its lofty goals. For many consecutive centuries, we did not have the opportunity to practice what we identified as beneficial for the nation. But you have this opportunity today, and you ought to appreciate it. You must be thankful to God and ask Him to provide you with further opportunities to use this to serve the people.
As it happens, government week has coincided with the holy Islamic months. We are in the holy month of Sha'ban. The holy month of Ramadan, which is a month full of divine blessings, is a couple of weeks away. We must make the best of these divine blessings and increase our spiritual capacities and our attention to spirituality. This will prove to be helpful. 
As regards the excellent report presented by the president, I would recommend that the report be published. I would also recommend that the IRIB give full coverage to the entire speech he delivered so that the people and the elites can listen to it. There are many facts in our daily lives that the people are not appropriately informed of. It is a fact that we are working for the sake of Allah and that Allah's satisfaction must be - and by Allah's favor is - our most cherished goal. But providing the public with enough information about what we do is of paramount importance. That in itself is a separate goal. I have given some recommendations in this regard previously, and I would like to repeat the same recommendations here. 
There are a number of outstanding characteristics that the current administration enjoys, and I deem it necessary to specify these characteristics. Although this has been repeatedly stated before, you dear friends must pay attention to the point that it is these characteristics that provide you with this prominence. Names and positions do not necessarily grant one honor and a distinguished status. This is not the way to achieve honor. According to a tradition, "the most noble people of my Ummah are those who are acquainted with the Quran and who engage in worshipping during the night." While nobility has a particular meaning in materialistic systems of government, it has taken on a different meaning in Islamic rule. Noble people are those who engage in worshipping during the night - namely, those who rise up at night for the sake of God and those who do difficult things at night for the good of the people - and those who are acquainted with the Quran, meaning those who are closely familiar with the Quran and move along by the light of the Quran. Those who have money and a high social position are not considered as noble in Islamic thought and in the Islamic value system. 
That is the way statesmen gain prominence. There are some things that provide one with true prominence, and we must pay attention to these things. In the first place, I would advise you to pay attention to the point that your prominence and your honor depend on these characteristics. Secondly, these characteristics would help clarify the reason why a certain administration or certain group of people are supported and what this support signifies. There are three characteristics that I am going to talk about today. 
The first characteristic is that the current administration is hard-working in the true sense of the word. This administration means what it says. The dynamism of this administration is a prominent reality. Thankfully, you had a good start in the first year of your term, and you have managed to keep up your efforts. Although three years of your term have passed now, one can easily feel the fresh dynamism and diligence of this administration - that is to say, the dynamism has not diminished. That is an invaluable feature.
There is enthusiasm in this administration to serve the public. Organizing trips to small towns and different parts of the country and not disregarding any part of the country is a praiseworthy measure on the part the current administration. That is the first prominent characteristic. The presence of this characteristic among the members of any group of people necessitates that one appreciate the characteristic, emphasize it, and be confident and hope that Allah the Exalted will bless and reward that group. 
The second prominent characteristic of the current administration is its general mottos and discourse which correspond to the mottos and discourse of Imam Khomeini (r.a.) and the Revolution. That, too, is something invaluable. No one can disregard it. Anyone who cares about the Revolution would appreciate this feature. All those who think of progress under the Revolution must appreciate this feature. Seeking justice has been given more prominence by the current administration. Mottos of seeking justice have exerted great influence on the government officials and their plans. Fighting arrogance - which has a specific revolutionary meaning - was raised to a distinguished position. Fighting arrogant powers is not the same as hostility towards other governments in the world. Rather, it means fighting arrogance on the part of any government. Arrogance on the part of any government is like plague for humanity. Of course, the US and the Zionist regime are the embodiment of arrogance today. But generally speaking, in any part of the world any government and any group of people who show arrogance towards other people plague humanity and human life. Fighting this state of affairs is something positive from an Islamic point of view. This is another characteristic of the current administration. 
Claiming national honor, abandoning a passive attitude towards dominance, belligerence, and greediness on the part of other countries, and overcoming cowardice in the face of the West and westoxication are the points that one can clearly notice in the current administration. These are the causes of national honor and of genuine spiritual independence. Independence is not the same as shouting mottos of independence, nor is it the same as achieving, say, a high economic growth rate. A nation must believe in its identity and grandeur, consider them to be important, make serious efforts to preserve them, and not feel ashamed of one's righteous remarks and position when faced with opposition and ridicule. 
Unfortunately, I noticed on some occasions that some of the people who represented government officials, or some government officials themselves, seemed to be ashamed of the discourse of the Revolution. They appeared to be ashamed of talking about the realities of the Revolution, pursuing them, or giving them prominence. That is a great issue that can plague an entire community. You are not suffering from this flaw. 
Defending Iran's right to nuclear energy is another manifestation of defending the country's dignity. The issue was not that we wanted to use nuclear energy technology while others were against it. This was only one side of the issue. The other side of the issue was that different obstinate, bullying, and domineering powers and their mercenaries wanted to impose their will on the Iranian nation. But the Iranian nation, the administration, and the president stood firm against these bullying and expansionist powers. Allah the Exalted also helped us, and we made progress. These are the aspects of the current administration's general policies which are very important to me. 
The current administration also managed to stop the process of westoxication that was penetrating different governmental organizations. This is an important matter. In every society, there might be some people who are interested in a certain country or culture due to different reasons. However, when such phenomena penetrate different revolutionary organizations and managers, they would have dangerous consequences. This was what was happening, but it was eradicated. 
Secular tendencies - which were unfortunately becoming common among some government officials - were also eradicated. An Islamic government has been formed on the basis of the Quran, and Islamic principles. And it is due to this reason that our people supported the Revolution, laid down their lives for it, and sent their youth to battlefields. Can government officials in such a country hold secular beliefs? This is like uprooting the Revolution with our own hands. This was a very dangerous phenomenon that was thankfully eradicated. 
Another outstanding characteristic of the administration is its courage in bringing about transformations in the country. The current administration has a tendency to bring about transformations and take the necessary measures in this regard. Of course, I do not intend to say that all of these measures are right. There might be mistakes in some cases. But the very fact that you have the courage to deal with the problems and take measures to solve them is a valuable characteristic which is thankfully possessed by the current administration. 
Showing courage in fighting corruption is another point. Fighting corruption is a very difficult task, as I once said. I do not intend to say that corruption has been uprooted. It still exists. However, the administration is courageous enough to fight corruption. When the members of a group are not corrupt themselves, they naturally show more courage in fighting corruption. Of course, many of the previous administrations were also honest - I mean they were corruption-free. But the courage to fight corruption is an advantage for the current administration. 
Another point is having an aggressive attitude towards global bullying powers. Sometimes, global bullying powers say: "you have done something, and we will deal with it", but other times they adopt an aggressive stance and try to bully others. The best policy in such situations is to adopt an aggressive approach. Global bullying powers suffer from many weaknesses: they are involved in different crimes, corruption, violation of human rights and the rights of different nations and people, as well as many other nasty actions. Yet, they take a bold stance at the end. Their weaknesses should be exposed in the same aggressive manner. It is by no means the case that we would try to find answers to the international political attacks. Once, I used to be asked: "what is your answer to this claim?" And I used to say that we would provide no answers. We have our own stance. We have our own stance in regard to women's rights and basic human rights. We have our own stance in regard to these issues and would not provide counterarguments. Why should anyone ever question us and seek counterarguments? They have no right to do so, or to make any false claims. What the current administration is doing is a good policy. It follows the principles of the Revolution. This is what will clarify realities. 
In brief, the following constitute the general discourse of this administration: reviving and reconstructing the essential features of the Revolution and Imam Khomeini's thought, opposing those who intended to make obsolete or destroy these values and these essential concepts or those who simply claimed that they had been destroyed or made obsolete. That is something very valuable. That is the second advantage that the current administration enjoys.
The third outstanding characteristic of the administration is its humble attitude towards the public. This is very valuable and should be appreciated. It is not the appearances that have brought respect to the administration. Rather, living an austere life, keeping in touch with the people, and listening to their concerns is the current administration's advantage. You should try to preserve this characteristic. 
Austere simplicity - which is especially tangible in the president's lifestyle - is an outstanding and valuable characteristic. Thankfully, this characteristic is more or less exhibited by the administration officials as well. Maintaining a simple lifestyle is a valuable characteristic. It is not possible to eradicate luxurious and extravagant lifestyles - which are indeed a great problem - in society through words only. I mean it is not possible to do so if our words are different from our actions. We should practice what we preach. In order for our words to be effective, our actions should reflect and corroborate what we say. Thankfully, this is the case in the current administration. The administration has managed to form close bonds with the underprivileged class. And you should continue to do so and narrow the gap as much as possible. These are the three outstanding characteristics of the administration. 
"Those who are not grateful to God's servants are not grateful to God either." [Speaking in Arabic]. This is a duty upon me and everybody else as well. If we do not thank the current administration for its outstanding characteristics, God will not be pleased with us. Allah the Exalted would like the outstanding characteristics of people to be appreciated. And for this reason, it is my duty to thank the administration for its outstanding characteristics. Of course, my support is not limited to the current administration only. I have always supported all our administrations. Imam Khomeini (r.a.) also used to support the different administrations and the executive and government officials. The reason is obvious. This is because the executive branch shoulders a great responsibility in the management of the country, and the government should support the president, the officials of the executive branch, and the cabinet members. Imam Khomeini (r.a.) also used to support the different administrations. I have always done so in the past as well. The outstanding characteristics of the administration which I mentioned have caused me to support the current administration more strongly.
Of course, supporting the administration does not mean that we should ignore its weaknesses. To err is human. You have some weaknesses as well. There are certain things which you intended to do, but you have so far failed to do them. There are certain things which you have not thought of yet and should pay more attention to. These are the things which I also mentioned in my private meetings with the president and other government officials, and in some public meetings - like my meetings with cabinet members. Of course, I will continue to support the administration. 
Let me mention a few points here. One of the points concerns my demands of the administration, which I have always talked about in my meetings with cabinet members. I would hereby like to emphasize those points again. I also talked about these demands in the past. They are very important, and I expect the top-ranking government and executive officials to pay attention to these demands. 
One of the points is obeying the law. You should seriously take the law into consideration. When a law is passed, in accordance with the constitution, it must be respected and obeyed. The Majlis, the administration, or other officials might take measures to change certain laws - through proposals in the Majlis, through bills passed by the administration, or through other decisions made in different sectors. There is nothing wrong with this. The laws must be changed if there are any shortcomings or if they are not accurate. However, they must be obeyed and respected as long as they have not been changed. This is a point which I have to emphasize again. This is true about other sectors as well. You might believe that certain laws have not gone through accurate legislation processes or that the responsibility for their implementation does not fall within the administration's realm of power. When the Majlis passes a law, in accordance with the constitution, the administration must obey that law. If there are any shortcomings in the law, other people should try to address the shortcomings. The law should be observed in the Majlis, in the Guardian Council, and in other organizations. 
Supervising the performance of other subsidiary sectors is also very important. I emphasize that you dear friends - top-ranking government officials - take the issue of supervision very seriously. You should keep a watchful eye in order to guarantee accuracy and progress in what you do. If you neglect this duty, you might face disorder in the sector where you work. 
Humans are not like machines which can be operated at the push of a button. Humans have wills, thoughts, opinions, and different tastes as well as good and evil sensual desires. You might have to tackle different opinions, thoughts, and tastes when implementing the decisions made in the administration, and therefore fail to fully implement those decisions. This is like a body of water hitting a rock. If a narrow stream of water hits a stone, the current will be stopped. The obstacles should be removed. However, this is not possible unless there is proper supervision. The role of supervision is very vital. 
The same is true about the president as well. Of course, the president's supervision over the ministers should not undermine their independence in carrying out their duties. This is because the ministers have legal duties to fulfill, have been voted into their positions by the Majlis, and should have independence in carrying out their duties. However, this does not negate the fact that ministers should be supervised. On the one hand, their independence should be respected. On the other hand, the president should exercise close supervision. This is also a duty. 
Another issue is that of implementing the decisions made by the administration - especially the proposals which are made during the president's trips to different provinces and the promises which are made during these trips. During your trips to different provinces, you might make, say, one or two hundred proposals. You should seriously follow these proposals. As you know, I have long experience in receiving reports about the performance of lower-ranking officials - both during and after my presidential term. It happens pretty often that you receive reports about certain things having been done. However, when you investigate the reports, you realize that the reports are not false but not that accurate either. 
There is a point in what I just said. This does not mean that you have been given false reports. Rather, it means the reports fall short of your expectations. Therefore, you should stay vigilant so that your expectations are fulfilled. There might be discrepancies in the written reports which are presented. However, the decisions which are made - especially the promises given to the people - should be followed and implemented. 
As I said, you have formed a democratic administration. This means the people have the feeling that they are very closely connected to the administration. The reason is that the administration has taken a humble stance towards people. As a consequence, the level of expectations is high. It is good to act humbly towards the public, but this would raise the level of expectations. If you do not live up to the expectations, the people's trust in the administration will be undermined. This is not permissible. You should not let this happen. You should fulfill your promises. If you cannot fulfill your promises, you should honestly let the nation know about this. 
During the initial stages of Dr. Ahmadinejad's term, I told him that a certain decision - which I do not want to talk about - which had been made prior to his term, might cause him troubles. I advised him to talk honestly to the people about it and say that he could not pursue the matter. I told him that the people would accept your words this way. However, he thought it was not expedient to do so and did not do what I had told him. Of course, what I had said was only a suggestion, and I did not force the president to do it. I believe that if the administration officials are unable to fulfill their promises - for instance they might make certain promises during a trip, but later find that it would bring about inflation or cause other problems - they should honestly inform the people about it. They should tell the public that a decision has been made, but unfortunately cannot be implemented. This is better than not fulfilling the promises. 
Collaborating with other branches is another suggestion I would like to make to the administration officials. Collaborating with the Majlis and the judiciary is necessary. This duty should by no means be ignored. Of course, you might face certain difficulties in this regard, but you should tolerate the difficulties. 
Another issue is that of developing an organized collaboration with the elites and intellectuals - even those who hold different views. The administration should collaborate with these people. The role of elites should not be neglected. I believe that where there is a contradiction between the will of the public and that of the elites, the will of the public should be given precedence. This is the view of Imam Ali (a.s.). The Commander of the Faithful (a.s,) made this demand in his famous letter to Malek al-Ashtar. Of course, this is not the case at all times. We should sometimes make use of the reforming views of elites. This means that just as is said "we can use other's knowledge in case our knowledge is not sufficient", we can also use other's help to do certain things. This is a reality. We should utilize the opinions, and capabilities of all people.
Another issue is that of presenting reports which I have always emphasized. Of course, recently I see that some useful reports are presented prior to the president's trips to different provinces. However, you should not limit yourselves to that only. The reports should be skillfully prepared. They should not be presented like the ordinary and common reports. Of course, the president's report presented in today's meeting is an exception. In my opinion, it should be fully published. Also in other sectors, the ministers should act in an organized manner when presenting reports. It is not easy to deliver a report. Presenting a report - of what you have done - that would win the people's trust is a very difficult task. It needs expertise and should be done carefully.
Another suggestion I would like to make - and which I have always emphasized - is related to the issue of science and technology. Fortunately, the president's deputy for science - who fortunately received vote of confidence from the Majlis - would be very helpful in this regard. However, the issue still needs more careful attention. This is a basic issue and is among the fundamental matters of the country. If we can make progress in this regard, it would lead to progress in other areas as well.
Another suggestion is related to the issue of culture. Of course, certain things have been done in this regard. The issue was also mentioned in the report presented by the president. I know about many of the things that are being done in this regard. Still, I have to say that the issue of culture is of paramount importance. As I have always said, it is like the environment that we breathe in. All of us - old, young, high-ranking, and low-rankling people, those from different backgrounds, officials, and non-officials - breathe in this environment. This environment should be properly built so that everyone can breathe in healthy conditions. 
You should also pay attention to the criticisms leveled against you. Of course, as I will mention later, criticism is different from denigration. Unfortunately, many people denigrate under the guise of criticism. Where you are being truly criticized, and where people pay attention to the positive points as well as the weaknesses, you should patiently listen to the criticisms. This does not mean that you should accept all criticisms - because they might make mistakes in criticizing you. You should listen to criticisms when the administration is being rightly criticized. These are the things which I have mentioned in the past as well. Still, I have to emphasize these points again. Some of the points have been taken into consideration, while others need to be paid more attention to.
There are a number of points that I would like to make about the last year of this term. First of all, you must keep working as hard as you did in the first year of your term. Of course, I feel that is the case. However, I have to emphasize this again. You must not assume that this is the last year of your term. You ought to work as if you were supposed to remain in office for five more years. You must work, plan, and take measures with this in mind. 
Second, you must give priority to what has been left unfinished. That is what flourishment means. I named this year as 'the year of innovation and flourishment'. Innovation is not proposing a series of different projects one after the other. Innovation is an intellectual endeavor. Innovation means finding new ways to do things, and providing the administration with the outcomes. It could be this administration or any other administration voted into office in the next 20 years. Innovation means finding new ways. Making the outcome of your efforts visible to the public is part of the meaning of flourishment. Therefore, you must give priority to unfinished projects, started by your administration or the previous administrations. The bottom line is that the people should be able to benefit from your services in this term. 
The third point that I want to make here concerns providing the public with the appropriate information. There is another important issue that I would like to raise here. The next decade is the decade of progress and justice. Justice and progress are the mottos of the next decade. This is not to say that we have not made any progress so far or that justice has been disregarded. On the contrary, we want to take a quantum leap regarding the promotion of justice and progress in the next decade. Fortunately, we have the necessary means. In the next decade, the government officials' discourse must be centered on progress and development coupled with justice.
Of course, it goes without saying that justice cannot be administered in the absence of spirituality and rationality. I have stressed this point in the past as well. In the absence of spirituality, justice turns into hypocrisy. In addition, rationality is a necessity for the administration of justice, because in the absence of rationality genuine justice may be replaced with what is only so-called justice. Therefore, rationality and spirituality are both a prerequisite for the administration of justice. 
Progress would lose its meaning in the absence of justice, as would justice in the absence of progress. Justice and progress must go hand in hand. If we are to turn into a model for other Islamic countries, the promotion of justice and progress must be our lofty aspiration and it must be of central concern.
The twenty-year strategic plan would provide us with the necessary direction. The strategic plan must not be disregarded. This plan will indeed show us the way. You must re-evaluate your supervisory mechanisms. The others may supervise you, or they might fail to do so. They may or may not supervise you in an appropriate manner. You must set up supervisory bodies and supervisory mechanisms within the executive branch - which has an essential role in realizing the goals of the strategic plan - in order to check the progress of the plans and policies. I mean it must not be the case that we look back after the passage of 10 years and see that we have made no progress. You must not let that happen. You must constantly check your progress and see what percentage of the goals has been realized, and how much of the groundwork has been done. 
The next point has to do with the policies regarding Article 44 of the constitution. There is a general consensus that if this article is implemented, there will be a transformation in the country's progress. It will bring about a transformation in economy, and this in turn will lead to transformations in other areas as well. That is a very important point. There have been good reports coming in, and good measures have been taken in this regard. The administration had taken good measures before this article was passed in the Majlis. Thankfully, the article has been ratified now, and you must pursue these policies. 
The plan for economic transformation that has recently been proposed by the administration is a great achievement. Even the courage to take such a measure is praiseworthy. This plan had been discussed in other administrations as well, but no real action was taken. Also the problems that keep plaguing banks, taxation, insurance, customs services, and other areas addressed in different parts of the plan are all important issues and need to be remedied. I would recommend that you proceed with prudence. That is to say, you must never let this great issue be treated with haste. This is another important measure that has to be taken. If you can do this in an appropriate manner, it will constitute a giant stride towards the progress of the country. Of course, if it is not done in an appropriate manner, it will result in certain dangerous consequences. I mean you must take extra care not to treat the issue perfunctorily. It is totally unadvisable to balk at entering this arena. But I recommend that you be cautious about the prospects and the consequences. I recommend that you make plans to prevent the consequences.
Suppose a certain part of this plan is predicted to result in inflation. You must think in advance and make plans in order to deal with this consequence. You must see what measures to take in order to mitigate the effects of this unavoidable inflation or to prevent them. This is necessary for safeguarding economic activities against the consequences of this great transformation. Inflation is a great issue in our country. I mean you have rendered so many services and made so many efforts, which must show their effects in people's lives. We currently have this problem. Of course, as was discussed before my address, part of this inflation is due to the current global inflation, drought, and last year's harsh winter. But part of the problem might have been avoidable. Therefore we must identify the avoidable factors and keep clear of them.
Criticism and denigration is the last point that I want to discuss. What is the line between criticism and denigration? They sometimes denigrate under the guise of criticism. Other times, we are offered constructive criticism and we think that we are being denigrated. We must determine what constitutes criticism and what counts as denigration. Criticism may be defined as fair evaluation done by experts. A blacksmith is not qualified to say that a piece of gold is, say, 20 carat gold. This evaluation has to be done by a goldsmith.
Unfortunately, one can see that denigration is being leveled against the current administration under the guise of criticisms. I mean they deny the strengths and positive points of this administration and magnify their weaknesses. No one can deny the fact that there are some weaknesses. Any administration has its own weaknesses. No one is perfect. One must point out the weaknesses as well as the strengths. An administration can be evaluated only when its strengths and weaknesses are fairly pointed out. Constant slandering and denying all positive features do not constitute criticism. I touched upon three major strengths in the beginning of my speech. There are of course many other strong points. Those who criticize the administration must point out these three strengths as well. They must refer to the administration's high spirits and its discourse. They must also point out its performance and the general attitude of the administration officials. It is only then that they may point out the weaknesses of the administration. Such criticisms must be attended to and accepted wholeheartedly. But these criticisms must not be accompanied by complete disregard for the strong points and a tendency to present the strengths as weaknesses. 
Today, our foreign policy and our discourse in the face of arrogant powers are imbued with a righteous tone, with grandeur, and with spiritual and national power. There are some people who point to the same thing and criticize this feature, saying "you have made such and such a government dissatisfied." Some governments would naturally hate us. Such governments would have been satisfied with us if we had flattered them, quoted them as an authority, or withdrawn our revolutionary remarks. Constructive criticism is something good, but denigration is not tenable. Constructive criticism constitutes service and denigration is betrayal - betrayal of not the administration but of the Islamic government and the nation. Nobody is allowed to denigrate others, but constructive criticism is welcome. 
Of course, you must treat the criticisms with tolerance. That is to say, if a criticism is fair, you must welcome it. I would even recommend that you tolerate denigration. Such things happen to all administrations during the last year of their terms. Of course, this administration has had a greater proportion of denigration. There are two fronts that are acting against this administration: internal and foreign. The latter camp is the more important one. If you take a look at the reports of the world media and the comments of news agencies and political forums, you will notice that they have all joined forces in order to pressure this administration and castigate it. They do not seek to throw mud at this administration alone - namely, Dr. Ahmadinejad or the officials of the executive branch. Of course, you have to bear the brunt of this denigration, but their main target is the Revolution and the Islamic Republic. You are targeted just because you are saying what the government intends to say. That is the policy which is currently being pursued outside the country. This policy is pursued in its various forms. Some of these attacks can be seen by the public, while some others cannot be identified even by the elite. But I am aware of these attempts. According to the reports I receive and by observing their interaction and comments, I have realized how the entire administration is being targeted by the attacks. This is all due to the fact that the discourse of this administration is the same as the revolutionary discourse and follows the path of the Revolution. 
There are a variety of motives behind the internal attempts at denigration. One should not tar everybody with the same brush. There are some people who are unaware of what they do - that is, they do not bear any grudges against the administration. They simply lack the necessary information and say what they say due to lack of sufficient information. Some of them bear personal and superficial grudges. There are some other people who are deeply spiteful. In other words, they are at odds with the entire government and bear grudges against Imam Khomeini (r.a.). These people are the ones who either never believed in the words of Imam Khomeini (r.a.) or do not believe in them now. There are some people among them who lost their faith in his statements and turned their backs on him. These are some of the motives. But they all amount to the current belligerence and mud-throwing. 
I would also recommend that you avoid providing the opponents with pretexts. Unfortunately, I sometimes notice that you yourselves provide the opposition with pretexts. You must take extra care in this regard. 
I hope that Allah the Exalted is satisfied with you and with us all. I hope He will assist us. I hope that the Imam of the Age is satisfied with us. I hope we will keep serving the Islamic Republic, Islam, and the nation. I hope we will not feel ashamed on the Judgment Day. The remaining days of our lives are going to pass quickly. As you can remember, in my first meeting with you, I pointed out that it was the first meeting and that we would soon be holding the last meeting. You can see how quickly time passes and our lives get closer to their end. I hope when we are raised on the Judgment Day, we will not feel ashamed before Allah the Exalted, His Imams, and all people. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings 
