
<meta year="2008" title="Leader Meets People from Various Ethnic Backgrounds"/>
 
In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful
Firstly, I welcome all you dear brothers and sisters who have traveled here from various parts of the country and formed this cordial and sincere gathering in this Hussayniah.
I extend my congratulations on the arrival of the holy month of Rabi' al-Awal which is the birth anniversary of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (SWA), and a major historical point for the whole humanity as well. The first day of Rabi' al-Awal marks the start of the Holy Prophet's migration from Mecca to Medina which is the starting point of the Muslim's Hijri calendar. This month marks both the birth anniversary of the Holy Prophet (SWA) and the start of his migration.
These historical events are very important and valuable to the Islamic Ummah. Today, in the so-called modern world and despite the unprecedented conditions in some nations, these historical events come as an inspiration to the Islamic Ummah and Muslims across the globe. They learn lessons from these events. The memory of the birth of the Holy Prophet Muhammad, who was selected by God and who served as a perfect example for the humanity, comes as a source of delight for Muslims living across the world, who testify to such facts as "there is no god but Allah" and "Muhammad is the messenger of Allah". 
The love for the Holy Prophet is deeply rooted in the hearts of all Muslims. Therefore, the global arrogant powers target the Holy Prophet (SWA) today, and are trying to weaken Islam in that way. The Zionist regime and the governments who are under their influence, namely the arrogant powers of the world led by the criminal U.S. government, attack the Holy Prophet (SWA) when fighting against Islam and the Islamic Ummah. Why do they do these things? They attack the Holy Prophet (SWA) because his memory, his name, his birth, and his migration along with his 10-year rule in Medina, and all his acts and teachings include lessons for all Muslims if these aspects of his life are properly reflected on. These lessons open a new gate into life for all Muslims. The Holy Prophet (SWA) comes as an inspiration to the Islamic Ummah. 
They have formed an opposition front against the Holy Prophet (SWA) because they are aware of these facts, and because they are afraid of vigilance in the Islamic Ummah. This is because they are petrified by the power of one and a half billion Muslims living across the world. Through their mercenaries, they insult the Holy Prophet (SWA) - who is a blessing to the whole world and who is the source of all goodness for the humanity - in their media, in the speeches of their politicians, and in their writings. This should awaken all Muslims. We should be aware of the great treasure that is hidden in the Prophet's being, in his personality, in the memories of his life, in his migration and jihad, in his lifestyle, and in his verbal and practical teachings. If it makes use of this treasure, the Islamic Ummah will gain such a position in the world that it would not allow any single power in the world to bully it, to put it under pressure, or to intimidate it. There is a lesson in that for us.
Today, the global hegemony is openly opposing Islam. They are spreading political propaganda against the Islamic Republic because the Islamic Republic has raised the flag of Islam, because it has rejuvenated Islam in the hearts of all Muslims, because it has helped Islam flourish, and because it has dignified Islam. The Islamic Republic has itself been dignified due to Islam. That is the reason why they stand against the Islamic Republic, and that is why they are hostile towards us. They are in fact opposed to Islam, that is the whole Islamic Ummah and all Muslim nations. The Islamic Ummah must strongly feel this fact.
They claim to support human rights and democracy. They talked about our nuclear activities for a while. They use all these claims to justify their enmity. The real explanation lies elsewhere. The real reason for their enmity lies in the fact that they are aware of how powerful a force the Islamic Ummah could become under Islam. This is what they are opposed to. They realize that the Holy Prophet (SWA), his memory, his lifestyle, and his teachings can rejuvenate the Islamic Ummah and turn it into an influential element in the international arena. They know that these very facts could dignify the Islamic Ummah and this is what they do not desire. They are opposed to such dignity and they stand against it. 
Everyone in the world testifies to the fact that the U.S. is the archenemy of human rights. By United States, I do not mean the U.S. citizens. Rather, I mean their politicians, their top officials, those who are under their influence, those who rule in the U.S. government, and the Zionist regime who are all among the greatest enemies of humanity. Look at what they are doing in Gaza, and Palestine! Look at how they treat the Muslim nations! Look at how cruelly they treat the innocent people in Iraq and Afghanistan! Look at their tortures! The U.S. president openly stands against the anti-torture bill, and this is indeed a very important issue. It bears testimony to the fact that torturing is a legal practice. It means that the U.S. is free to torture its captives who are a group of innocent people captured in Iraq, Afghanistan, or other parts of the world. They have raised the flag of torture and yet they claim to support human rights.
The result of such acts by the U.S. politicians and officials is the "Down with the U.S" slogan which is nowadays shouted by all Muslim nations from the bottom of their hearts. This slogan is shouted by all Muslims. The Iranian nation was once the only awakened nation who used to shout the "Down with the U.S" slogan. Today, the slogan is heard all over the world. Wherever the doomed U.S. president makes a trip, Muslim and even non-Muslim nations hold huge demonstrations against him. They burn up the U.S. flag and chant the "down with the U.S." slogan. They even burn the U.S. president in effigy. Can they be called the advocates of human rights? 
Their blatant acts flare up enmity and hatred in the people of the world and in nations who are suffering their atrocities. Those who give their assent to torture, to the military invasion of countries, and to the bombardment of nations, and those who clearly practice discriminations against people inside and outside the U.S. claim to advocate democracy and human rights! These very facts acquaint the nations with the nature of these arrogant powers, which are the real embodiment of corruption. Their acts make nations aware of what they pursue by their policies.
The Iranian nation should know that it is not alone in the world. The slogans of the Iranian nation are shared by many other Muslim and even non-Muslim nations. They shout these slogans from the very bottom of their hearts. This could not have happened without your assistance, resistance, and bravery. The people of the world have realized the facts. The veil of hypocrisy that covers the face of these arrogant powers has been lifted. Even they themselves are aware of this fact. They know that the Iranian nation is the standard-bearer of this great movement by the Islamic Ummah, and it is due to this very fact that they express hostility towards Iran. 
They are opposed to anything that would provide the means for the Iranian nations' dignity, power, and comfort. One of the manifestations is the election that is a great experience for our nation, and in which our people are going to take part in a few days' time. They are opposed to your elections. They are opposed to the very act of staging elections, and to the vast and enthusiastic presence of people in the elections. They are opposed to the election of the most qualified candidates and those who defend people's rights. They go up against the election of those who are pious and believe in the principles of Islam and the Islamic values. Why is that? Their opposition is rooted in the fact that people's participation in the elections and the presence of qualified and appropriate MPs in the Parliament would not be suitable for them, therefore they stand against the elections. They oppose in whatever ways they can. They spread propaganda, they establish radio broadcasts, and they try to make people disappointed in the elections - which is only a dream, and the result will, by Allah's favor, be quite the opposite of what they desire.
Just a week ago, the U.S. government issued a statement indicating that they were trying to get the UN Security Council to pass a resolution against Iran so that this would lead to stopping people from taking part in the elections. Just think about their acts.
Despite such acts, they claim to advocate human rights and democracy. People's participation in the elections is an indication of democracy in all parts of the world. What else could possibly constitute democracy? Because they know that the Iranian nation's participation in the elections would provide the bases of the Iranian nation's dignity and power, they stand against the staging of elections. The result of their efforts is already known to us, and so has it been during the last 30 years. Whenever our enemies tried, through their propaganda, to stop our people from taking part in the elections our nation took part in the elections even more enthusiastically against their will. By Allah's favor, this will be the case this time round too.
Our People know that their participation in the elections will bring about international weight and power for them. This is what our enemies are opposed to. They do not want our nation to take part in the elections. They want this lack of participation to act as a sign of people's opposition to the Islamic system. They want the Islamic system to be weakened in that way so that they can mount pressures on the government and the nation as well as everyone else.
They know that people's participation in the elections will empower them, thereby leading to their inability to implement their plans against Iran. They are against the staging of elections. They are using all their propaganda machines to stop people from taking part in the elections. Of course, they unfortunately have their own agents here and there. Besides their radio broadcasts and propaganda machines, their agents are involved in that sort of activity in some corners of the country as well. All their activities are aimed at infusing people with a sense of disappointment towards the elections. They try to instill into our people a sense of doubtfulness towards the great services rendered in this country. Who could possibly deny the great services that the government and the parliament have provided our nation with? These great services will, by Allah's favor, bear fruit in the course of time. 
They do whatever they can and spread propaganda against our government, our parliament, and our officials as much as they can in order to disappoint our people. They also try to create a sense of doubtfulness towards the staging of free elections in our country. "Are the elections not rigged?", "Don't they cheat in the elections?" they keep saying. I can fully assure you that both the election that is, by Allah's favor, to be held in the next few days and previous elections have all been accurate. It is due to those acts that I have constantly mentioned and still mention that participation in the elections is both a political and a religious duty. It is like strengthening one's body by taking vitamins and having nutritious food. When your body is strengthened, microbes can no longer penetrate it. Even if your body happens to be attacked, it can properly defend itself. Public participation is the most important issue about the elections. 
The Iranian nation has always been present in the arena when national power has been put to the test, as it has proven within the last 30 years. They have always been courageously and vigilantly present on the scene whenever their participation was to be considered as a manifestation of national authority - in demonstrations, in elections, and in Sacred Defense battlefields. That is why our country and nation have been strengthened on a daily basis during the last 30 years after the Islamic Revolution. The goals, principles, and values of our Revolution have been rejuvenated in the hearts of our nation on a daily basis.
What are the values of the Islamic Revolution? The power of faithfulness and piety in the hearts of people constitute the primary values of the Islamic Revolution. They are the source of all efforts and sacrifices. Social justice, fighting corruption, freedom of choice in the elections, and not imposing individual, party, governmental and personal opinions on people are among other values of the Islamic Revolution. Within the framework provided by the values of the Islamic Revolution, people should be able to think and act freely. This is the essence of religion-based democracy within the framework of Islamic principles. These constitute the values and the principles of the Islamic Revolution. Therefore, those who are going to vote should try to help form a parliament based on the same values and principles. Members of the parliament should be pious and trustworthy. They should believe in social justice and try to provide that across the country. They should provide the means for the dignity of the Islamic Republic, and should revile corruption at all levels and in all sectors. Our parliament should be based on these values. 
We have had seven parliaments so far. Certain MPs have at times been opposed to an Islamic label for our parliament. During the first parliamentary term, we were holding discussions over the selection of a proper name for the parliament. We finally named our parliament an Islamic Consultative Assembly, but some MPs opposed and said that the name must not include the word "Islamic". Such individuals would not be proper MPs for the parliament. The Iranian nation has made many sacrifices to protect Islam. The Iranian nation is seeking grandeur, power, and welfare in Islam. There were a number of MPs who stood against that Islamic label for the parliament, and that was not acceptable for us. There were also a number of other MPs during a different term who decided to pass a law that would force the government to quit its nuclear plans, which was exactly what our enemies desired. These are not what our nation wanted. The current parliament passed a law that made the government pursue nuclear energy and remove the obstacles that lie ahead. We have observed different courses of action during different parliaments.
We should stay vigilant. Our nation should stay vigilant. Our people should elect candidates who are pious and trustworthy, who defend justice and oppose corruption. They should elect candidates who would defend the rights of the underprivileged as well as Islamic principles and values, candidates who follow the values set by our magnanimous Imam. It is only then that our parliament would be a powerful and dignified one. Of course, identifying the most qualified candidates is not an easy task. To do so, one should inquire and refer to experts and those who are well-informed and trustworthy.
It is upon me to tell you that taking part in the elections is an act that is rewarded by God, even if one makes mistakes in one's choice. Of course, making the right choice will be rewarded doubly by God. The very act of taking part in the elections, which is a great test for the people, is itself rewarded by God. God Almighty is witness to all our deeds. "And say, Work; so Allah will see your work and (so will) His Messenger and the believers" [The Holy Quran 9:105]. Muslims in other nations will also be delighted by your participation in the elections. The sensitivity displayed by our ignorant and stupid enemies, namely the American officials and politicians, has given rise to a feeling of sensitivity towards our elections among Muslim nations as well. Everyone is waiting impatiently to see how elections are going to be held in our country.
They are waiting to see how our nation will enter the election arena and whom they will ultimately elect. Americans have expressed their approval of certain nominees and their disapproval of certain others. Muslim nations are curious to know whether what they preached will be put into practice, or whether our nation will adhere to its own Islamic principles. What the American officials desire is against our national interests.
May God bless our magnanimous Imam who used to teach us not to be intimidated by our enemies and their offensive language. He used to tell us that when enemies use offensive language against you, when they frown and slander you, it is an indication of a great achievement which has upset the enemies. You should be afraid of the enemies' praise which would mean that you have acted in their favor. Those MPs and government officials whom our enemies disapprove of and whom they consider to be inappropriate for governmental and parliamentary positions must be supported by our nation and must occupy the positions. Those who are supported by our enemies to occupy positions in the government and the legislative branch should not be voted for. If elected, they will work to pursue the enemies' goals.
The most qualified candidates are those who believe in Islamic principles, justice, and our national interests. They should set themselves clear borders with the enemies. Those who do not meet these qualities will not be appropriate members in the parliament. In fact, they would not be the representatives of our nation. Fortunately, except for a small minority, there is a general consensus among the different political groups in our country on the principles of Islam and the Islamic Revolution. The borders must be clearly set. Some stand on ceremony with the enemies, while others treat them with care. We should care about our nation and God Almighty, not the enemies. The more you care about them, and the more you retreat, the more the enemies will advance. If you fail to maintain a powerful stronghold before the enemies, they will encroach on your territory. This is what they are looking for. This is one of the criteria that our people must notice all across the country.
Those who have not set clear borders with the enemies and their mercenaries are not qualified to enter the parliament. Our MPs should be those who have set clear borders with the enemy. This is what I have already mentioned as well. I repeat myself. You should try to find the most qualified candidates. Ask for Allah's help to reach that goal. You may also refer to honest, trustworthy, and well-informed persons for help to see which nominees would be the most qualified to enter the parliament. If you put this into practice, our parliament will in the real sense of the word be able to achieve the ideals pursued by our nation. By Allah's favor, we have observed parliaments in which the overwhelming majority or all of the MPs acted in that way. They passed suitable laws and made the administration work hard. God willing, the 8th parliament will be one that will contribute to the accomplishment of righteous deeds in the country, and will put in efforts to attain the goals set by our officials, our executive branch, and our government. I hope, By Allah's favor, they will manage to help this country remove the obstacles in its way, pass suitable laws, and succeed in supervising the enforcement of law.
Legislation and supervision are the duties of the parliament. On the one hand, members of the parliament must pass suitable laws that would enable the administration to freely work and serve the nation. Thank God, our administrations have always served the nation well. The current administration has put in a great deal of efforts. On the other hand, they must supervise the enforcement of the law. All administrations should be kept under supervision. One should always be supervised by his/her conscience and legal observers. We must be aware of the fact that we are constantly watched by Allah the Exalted. If these points are observed, the parliament will manage to serve well.
I hope Allah the Exalted will help our esteemed people - whether in Tehran or in different cities and provinces across the country, or in villages and remote areas - to enthusiastically take part in the elections aiming to get spiritually closer to God. I hope, by Allah's favor, this general participation will lead to the Iranian nation's power and dignity before the eyes of its enemies. I also hope this participation will foil the enemies' plots, and will result in a parliament which will benefit the whole nation and contribute to Islamic values and ideals. By Allah's favor, the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) will bestow his blessings upon all of us. I pray to the Almighty to associate with His saints the immaculate souls of our dear martyrs and our magnanimous Imam, who opened up this path ahead of our nation.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

