
<meta year="2002" title="Leader's Statements on IRGC Day"/>
Ayatollah Khamenei also prayed for more divine blessings on those striving and making selfless scarifies for the sake of Islam and hoped that the flame of eternal salvation and prosperity which, thanks to the self-sacrifice of the devout Iranians, has illuminated this country and shed its light on the whole Islamic world would become brighter and more shining than before.
The Leader further felicitated the audience on the advent of the month of Sha'ban, stressing that the three months of Rajab, Sha'ban and Ramazan are favorable opportunities for prayer and supplication to Almighty Allah and enjoying the divine blessings.
As regards mankind's need for spirituality, the Leader said that without spirituality human beings would deviate from the path toward salvation and would fail to attain the lofty objectives for which they have been created. 
"When a nation becomes devoid of moral and spiritual values, it will lose its real identity and will have no proper direction in life. But a nation that is governed by moral and spiritual values will lead a meaningful life and will make an effort to attain its noble ideals. These three holy months provide us with favorable opportunities for increasing our spiritual asset and for getting closer to moral and spiritual perfection", he noted.
Ayatollah Khamenei also stated:
"In the Holy Qur'an, the Almighty says, 'Surely those who say, Our Lord is Allah, then they continue on the right way, the angels descend upon them, saying: Fear not, nor be grieved, and receive good news of the Garden which you were promised.' (41:30)
"In this verse, 'Our Lord is Allah' refers to servitude and submission to the Almighty. This is good in itself, but it is not enough. In other words, submission to Allah should be followed by the continuation on the right way, as this verse stresses. If those who say 'Our Lord is Allah' continue on the right way, then the angels will descend upon them. Thus, it becomes clear from this verse that the continuation and perseverance on the right way is very important."
Leader of the Islamic Republic went on to say:
"If a nation adheres to this concept and keeps up its perseverance on the right way, even mountains will not be able to pose any obstacles to its progress. This is what happened in the case of our nation and the victory of the Islamic Revolution. It was not even imaginable that a nation with empty hands would be able to overthrow a corrupt and despotic regime, which was supported by all oppressive powers of the world, and that this nation would be able to establish a government based on its Islamic ideals and principles. But this is what our nation did. Indeed, the Iranian people were so strongly motivated by their moral and spiritual ideals that no pressure, threat or intimidation could strop from accomplishing their noble objectives.
"Another instance of the Iranian nation's strong will and perseverance was witnessed during the imposed war. Most of you may have taken part in the sacred defense against the Iraqi aggressors. When the Iraqi regime waged its full-scale military aggression against the Islamic Republic, the Iranian nation was deprived of even most conventional weapons.
"However, the religious, moral and spiritual motives of the devout youngsters, the Basijis (volunteer forces), the IRGC members and faithful soldiers infused them with such great determination and high spirits that they managed to repel the full-scale military aggression of the Iraqi regime, a regime which was backed by a united front, including the U.S. intelligence services and its defense department, some NATO members as well as the former Soviet Union. Iraq was even supported financially by some oil-rich countries in the region.
"Today, thanks to their strong religious beliefs and resolution, the devout and revolutionary forces of the Islamic Republic have made great strides in the various areas of development as well as in the military and technological fields."
As regards the ideal society that the Islamic Republic aims to establish, Ayatollah Khamenei noted:
"We aim to establish a society in which people seek both worldly prosperity and eternal salvation, and in which people of all ranks enjoy justice and equity. In fact, this is the kind of society desired by all nations.
"Today, even in some developed and powerful countries, the common people are suffering from poverty, injustice, oppression and deprivation. This is because those at the helm in these countries only seek to acquire more wealth and power rather than promote moral and spiritual values and administer justice in society. 
"In the eyes of a vigilant and enlightened nation, an ideal society is the one in which spirituality, justice, human dignity and eternal salvation are as important as worldly prosperity, wealth and power. The establishment of this kind of society is possible only by adhering to moral and spiritual principles, by striving in the way of Allah and by making every effort to enforce the divine religion.
"Having this belief and ideology is what reflects honor on the IRGC members. They are the ones who have striven in the way of Allah. The IRGC Day is the birth anniversary of Imam Hussain (greetings be upon him), who was the embodiment and paragon of pure and immaculate endeavor and struggle in the way of Allah. This is why after nearly 14 centuries, the name of Imam Hussain (greetings be upon him) is still associated with justice, virtue and other spiritual and moral values, the values that also inspired our Islamic Revolution.
"Our Islamic Revolution followed the example set by Imam Hussain (greetings be upon him) and succeeded in bringing about an Islamic revival and in restoring the glory of Islam. Indeed, the great sacrifices that you, the IRGC members, and other devotees of the Islamic Revolution made over the recent years caused an awakening in the Islamic world, proved the justness of the struggle of the Iranian nation and brought disgrace on the arrogant power of the world.
"The United States is spending a great deal of money in order to preserve its prestige and manipulate the world public opinion. But today there are massive demonstrations in different parts of the world against the domineering and arrogant attitude of the United States, and Washington has suffered a heavy blow to its image in the eyes of the world public. This is the outcome of your resistance, striving and trust in Almighty Allah."
Elsewhere in his remarks, Leader of the Islamic Republic said:
"Today, an awakening has occurred in the Islamic world, and the enemies of Islam have lost face and suffered humiliation. This is due to the struggle and striving in the way of Allah, the way that will lead Muslims to an ideal society in which spiritual and moral values prevail, a society that also enjoys power, prosperity and advanced scientific knowledge and technology.
"This is the right path that has been trodden by the children of the revolution and Imam Khomeini, and it is the path that will surely lead us to that ideal society. However, the only condition for attaining this objective is perseverance.
"Perseverance means adhering to moral and spiritual values that have been prescribed by the Islamic tenets. It also means not being seduced by material and worldly allurements and not falling in the trap of pleasure-seeking and hedonism.
"The top and high-ranking officials of the country and senior military commanders are the first ones who should tread this path and comply with these guidelines. But the devout individuals who would like to be given credit for the progress of the Islamic system and the fulfillment of Islamic ideals by the Almighty, the nation and the history should also move in this direction." 
In conclusion, Ayatollah Khamenei stated:
"When a nation is armed with the weapon of martyrdom and struggle in the way of Allah, it will work wonders and miracles and will make great achievements. The enemies are trying to take this weapon away from our nation in order to render our Islamic system and revolution defenseless and vulnerable and in order to pave the way for their political, economic and military domination of our country. 
"It is up to you to remain steadfast to the Islamic and revolutionary ideals and safeguard your honor, dignity and identity. The first generation passed the trial of jihad and martyrdom successfully. Moreover, considering the great spirituality that is possessed by our young generation today, it is clear that the second and third generations will also pass this trial successfully by the grace of Allah if some day it is necessary to do so.
"God willing, through the perseverance, devotion and high spirits of you and other devotees of the Islamic Revolution, our nation will soon be able to remove the remaining obstacles to its progress and development and accomplish its divine objectives." 
