
<meta year="2009" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Woman Researchers of the Holy Quran"/>
I would like to welcome you honorable ladies and dear sisters. Today 
is an Eid for me because of seeing this large gathering of knowledgeable
 personalities, all of whom are attached to the Holy Quran. I consider 
this to be a blessing from the generous member of the Holy Prophet's 
(s.w.a.) household, Hazrat Fatimah Masumeh (God's greetings be upon 
here). I thank God that a day has arrived in our country when a great 
group of the ladies of the country are pursuing the Holy Quran and after
 understanding and promoting it with deep, reasonable and scholarly 
motivations. I thank God that they have improved the Quranic environment
 in a considerable way. This is certainly a great blessing that God has 
bestowed on our country. 
All the suggestions that the honorable ladies in this meeting have 
put forward are noteworthy. By Allah's favor, we will collect these 
suggestions and then, we will consider and pay attention to them. If 
there are certain officials in charge of such tasks, we will deliver 
these suggestions to them. I hope that, by Allah's favor, part of these 
suggestions - which are practical, reasonable and acceptable - will be 
implemented. 
I would like to discuss two issues. One issue is the essence of this 
outstanding and glorious movement which has been launched by women in 
our country and in the Islamic Republic. The second issue is about 
Quranic matters. I believe that the very essence of women's attention to
 the Holy Quran in our country and their presence on Quranic scenes is a
 phenomenon which should be presented to all viewers, researchers, 
critics, friends and opponents as the great achievement of the Islamic 
Republic. Everyone should witness this achievement. 
Primarily, women's entrance into issues related to knowledge and 
research - this is not particular to Quranic discussions - is 
noteworthy. I usually read and study the journals - scholarly, research 
and scholarly-promotional journals - which are published in the country.
 One can see that the number of woman writers and researchers in these 
journals is very noteworthy. These woman writers and researchers write 
about all the issues which our journals - they publish new and 
innovative ideas - are interested in. 
The participation of our ladies in seminarian studies, fiqh, 
philosophy, academic areas, humanities and natural sciences is 
outstanding and prominent and this participation can be witnessed in all
 fields of knowledge. Female students have filled our universities. The 
presence of women has astonishingly influenced scholarly environments. 
What is this? What phenomenon is this? What truth is this? When did our 
country have such a large number of woman researchers who are 
knowledgeable and well-educated and who are interested in promoting 
values and principles? Such a thing never existed in our history. 
During the time of taghuti regimes, there were only a few outstanding
 female scholars. But women did not have an outstanding and dominant 
presence in society. This large number of woman researchers is 
particular to the Islamic Republican era. This has been achieved in the 
shade of the rule of Islam in the country. It is because of the rule of 
Islam that women are showing themselves in the arena of knowledge and 
that they are achieving such prominence. This is one of the glories of 
the Islamic Republic. This is the reason why I have repeatedly said in 
my meetings with students and youth that we do not engage in defense 
when it comes to western claims on the issue of women. Rather, we launch
 an attack. It is the West, not Islam that should engage in defense. 
Contrary to what existed in taghuti regimes - which used to adopt a 
different outlook towards women - Islam gives women an identity. Islam 
mentions the name of a woman when it wants to give an example of a true 
believer: "And Allah sets forth, as an example to those who believe the 
wife of Pharaoh" [The Holy Quran, 66: 11]. This is the first example. 
"And Maryam, the daughter of Imran" [The Holy Quran, 66: 12]. This is 
the second example. 
The Holy Quran mentions two women as examples of "those who believe".
 It also mentions two women as examples of "those who disbelieve": "The 
wife of Nuh and the wife of Lut. They were both under two of Our 
righteous servants, but they acted treacherously towards them so they 
availed them naught against Allah" [The Holy Quran, 66: 10]. This means 
that Islam makes women a pivot, a lesson and a mirror not only for women
 themselves but also for the entire society. It could have chosen a man 
to enjoy this position. This position was bestowed on women in order to 
confront the deviant and wrong outlook towards women. This outlook has 
not always been derogatory, but it has always been wrong. 
There has always been a wrong outlook towards women. Today, the same 
wrong outlook exists in the west. Of course, a number of women may 
become outstanding, honorable and modest personalities in western 
systems. This holds true for men too. But the general outlook towards 
women, which has become firmly established in western culture, is an 
objectifying and insulting outlook. 
From the western viewpoint, the reason why women should not wear a 
chador and why they should not wear hijab is not that it wants them to 
be free. You say that you can have freedom with hijab as well. The West 
has a different opinion. It wants women to entertain men's eyes and it 
wants to use them in an illegitimate way. It wants women to a have a 
special appearance in society. This is the greatest insult to women. Of 
course, they cover it up with certain beautiful words and they give it 
different names. 
Respecting women means giving them the opportunity to develop, at 
different levels, those capabilities and those outstanding and great 
talents which Allah the Exalted has bestowed on all individuals - 
including women and the talents which are particular to them. Respecting
 women means allowing them to develop these talents inside the family, 
in society and in international arenas and for the sake of knowledge, 
understanding, research, education and construction. 
I see that, by Allah's favor and grace, this is showing itself in our
 society in a perfect way. Well, this is related to the basis of the 
work that the women of our country have thankfully carried out. The fact
 that they are present in all scholarly areas is very valuable. They 
have an active and praiseworthy presence, particularly in Quranic groups
 and in Quranic activities. This is very valuable. 
I do not think that women in any part of the world of Islam pursue 
Quranic activities in such an active way, in such large numbers and with
 such motivations and enthusiasm. Of course, I do not have detailed 
information in this regard and I have not researched into this issue, 
but according to my general information, such a thing does not exist in 
any part of the world of Islam because "if there was, we would know" 
[Speaking in Arabic]. This is only your achievement.
In my opinion, the existence of such a large number of woman 
researchers in different Quranic areas - ranging from purely scholarly 
areas to promotional, educational and artistic areas - is very valuable.
 If the issue of international Quranic competitions is put into practice
 the way it was suggested - this matter should be pursued and its 
different dimensions should be evaluated - then the value of Iranian 
women's work in Quranic areas will become clear. It will be an honor for
 both Iranian women and for the Islamic Republic to witness such an 
outstanding activity in Quranic areas.
On the issue of the Holy Quran, we should admit that our society 
witnessed a large gap between the people and the Holy Quran for many 
years. In the Islamic Republic, we are bridging this gap and we are 
making up for this backwardness, but this backwardness has been 
enormous. 
During taghuti regimes, the Holy Quran was not present in society in a
 formal way. A number of people were familiar with the Holy Quran in 
some corners of the country. There were a number of pious people who 
used to recite the Holy Quran at home, but this was confined to 
recitation. Few efforts were made to help people think about the Holy 
Quran in a deep way, particularly in society and in public. The result 
was that our intellectual and academic groups completely drifted away 
from the Holy Quran. There was really no one among the graduates of 
those times who had familiarity - basic familiarity, let alone detailed 
and deep familiarity - with the Holy Quran except for those people who 
had seminarian backgrounds and who had been memorizing a number of ayahs
 since their childhood. 
This was while such a situation did not exist in other Islamic 
countries - particularly Arab countries - because of certain reasons. 
Even in the present time, such a situation does not exist in these 
countries. When we meet with their intellectuals and their academic 
graduates - who have different governmental positions as well - we see 
that they quote Quranic ayahs to teach moral lessons and they use them 
as evidence and as clear reasons and proofs. This was something that was
 not common among our intellectuals in the past. But this is common 
among our today's youth. 
In the past, this was not common among our intellectuals because we 
had drifted away from the Holy Quran. That at which level education was 
in these countries is a different issue. What is clear is that this was 
and still is common in Arab countries. From the beginning of the 
Revolution, we have been witnessing this phenomenon in these countries. 
Politicians and officials in Arab countries constantly cited the Holy 
Quran although we always criticized and continue to criticize them - 
which is a legitimate criticism - for their lack of attention to Quranic
 principles in practice. 
We always regretted that we were not like them. If I want to draw an 
analogy, I should say that they cited the Holy Quran the way our 
talented Iranian personalities cite Saadi's Golestan, poetry of Hafiz 
and sentences from such and such a well-known writer. But in our 
country, such a thing was not common. We had drifted away from the Holy 
Quran because of the kind of education which was dominant before the 
Revolution. 
Now, we want to make up for this backwardness and great measures have
 really been adopted from the beginning of the Revolution. We are 
witnessing the results of these measures. However, this is only the 
beginning. This is the beginning of the path. We should establish a 
close relationship with the Holy Quran. Quranic concepts are concepts 
for life. They are not only some pieces of information. 
Some people have a good knowledge of the Holy Quran, but there is no 
trace of the Holy Quran in their lives. This was pointed out by a number
 of ladies in this meeting as well. We should try to make the Holy Quran
 the manifestation of our lives. When one of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.)
 honorable wives was asked about his behavior, she replied, "His 
behavior is imbued with the Holy Quran" [Fadhael al-Khamsa, Volume 1, 
page 117]. That is to say, the Holy Quran was the manifestation of his 
life. This should be achieved in our society as well. 
There is a very clear truth which is often ignored because it is very
 clear. Let us say what this truth is. This truth is that the 
establishment of the Islamic Republic is the manifestation of the Holy 
Quran. The Islamic Republic is a religious system and it is one of the 
greatest examples of observing Quranic principles. It was the Revolution
 which provided this for us. We should not be negligent about this. 
Of course, there are many pieces in this big puzzle which should be 
filled. There are many tasks which should be carried out, but the main 
task was creating this system. Creating a system which is based on 
religion and in which the identity, goals, characteristics, actions and 
interactions - with the people - of officials are based on religion is 
one of the greatest manifestations of acting on the Holy Quran. This is 
what the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) did when he immigrated to Madina. As long
 as there is not a society, system and power which can influence all 
social activities, there is no guarantee that tasks will be carried out.
 
Before the Revolution, there were a few sympathetic personalities. 
They had a feeling of pity for the country and they were upset. They 
constantly offered advice to the people either with different means of 
mass communication or with more limited means. Advice can be efficient 
and it can influence hearts, but it did not achieve practical results in
 those days. Why not? It was because the system was fake and because 
society's orientation was against justice, equality, kindness and 
morality. 
Even if you constantly advise someone who has such an orientation to 
be just and to be merciful, will they listen? Therefore, orientation is 
important. The right orientation can only be achieved by establishing a 
system which has a proper and religious position. The Revolution did 
this and it created this system. What I am saying is that our Quranic 
researchers and our enthusiastic and zealous youth should not forget 
this truth. This is a very clear truth, but it is often ignored. This is
 a very important truth. 
We should engage in Quranic construction and we should carry out the 
main tasks in this framework so that our build up will be Quranic in the
 real sense of the word and so that our individual, managerial, 
organizational, political and international behavior and our behavior in
 the educational system - including universities, research centers, 
Islamic seminaries and all other educational centers - and inside the 
family will be based on Islam. When will this be achieved? It will be 
achieved when we become familiar with Quranic concepts in a correct way.
 This is something that can be achieved with this great Quranic movement
 - whether launched by women or men. This is the direction which Quranic
 research should move in. 
An important point about research activities on the Holy Quran is 
that the person who wants to work on Quranic research should prepare his
 heart for approaching pure Quranic truths. That is to say, he needs 
purity of heart. If your heart is not pure, if it is not prepared to 
accept the truth which is expressed in the Holy Quran, if it is attached
 to non-Islamic and non-divine principles and values, then you will not 
benefit from the Holy Quran when you approach it. 
The Holy Quran says, "By it He causes many to stray, and many He 
leads into the right path" [The Holy Quran, 2: 26]. Well, why should the
 Holy Quran cause anyone to stray? It is clear why many people are 
guided by it, but what is the reason for this straying? This is because 
"And as for those in whose hearts is a disease, it adds uncleanness to 
their uncleanness" [The Holy Quran, 9: 125]. When those in whose hearts 
is a disease read the Holy Quran, the evil in their hearts and souls is 
strengthened. The ayahs and suras that they read strengthen the evil 
inside them. 
What is this evil? What is this disease in their hearts? This disease
 is a moral disease. When we are jealous, when we bear a grudge against 
someone, when we become greedy, when we suffer from materialism, when 
lust and hunger for power dominate us, when violating and denying other 
people's rights dominate our hearts and souls, then we will not be able 
to benefit from the Holy Quran. In such conditions, we take the opposite
 of what the Holy Quran should give us.
We should seek refuge in God. As you see, some people recite the Holy
 Quran in order to deliver a blow to Islam and to the Islamic Republic. 
They recite the Holy Quran with the purpose of destroying the virtues 
which the Islamic Republic has provided for us. We should read the Holy 
Quran with purity so that our hearts are enlightened with the light of 
the Holy Quran and Quranic advice and so that, by Allah's favor, we can 
benefit from it. 
Another point about research activities on the Holy Quran is that it 
is necessary to pay attention to important, fundamental and scholarly 
tasks when we engage in Quranic research. It is not the case that anyone
 who knows Arabic can understand all the issues about the Holy Quran and
 that they can become a Quranic researcher. This is not the case. First,
 it is necessary to establish a close relationship with the Holy Quran. 
That is to say, Quranic researchers should get close to the entire Holy 
Quran. Reading and re-reading the Holy Quran for the second and third 
time and thinking deeply about it helps us to achieve results when we 
are searching for truths in the Holy Quran. Therefore, establishing a 
close relationship with the Holy Quran is necessary.
Second, we should pay attention to the way we benefit from the Holy 
Quran. The method that our religious scholars and faqihs have adopted 
for benefiting from ayahs and narrations is a completely tried and 
tested and ripe method. Such methods should be adopted. 
I am not saying that anyone who wants to carry out Quranic research 
should go and study seminarian teachings for many years. This is not 
what I am saying. However, it is not possible to carry out Quranic 
research without familiarity with the requirements and principles that 
are necessary for understanding the Holy Quran such as familiarity with 
the Arabic language and its rules, with a number of principles of usul-e
 fiqh with the narrations which are in reference to matters in the Holy 
Quran. These are among necessary tools and one should learn how to use 
them. All of these tools play an efficient role in carrying out Quranic 
research.
Another point which I would like to discuss and which is the last 
point is that I have made a complaint to universities about humanities. I
 have expressed this complaint many times and I have done this recently 
as well. Our humanities are based on principles which are not compatible
 with Quranic and Islamic principles. Western humanities are based on a 
world view which is different from ours. They are based on a different 
reading of universe and on a materialistic outlook. 
Well, this outlook is wrong. These principles are wrong. We translate
 their works in the area of humanities and we promote and teach them in 
our universities without allowing Islamic researchers to research into 
them. This is while the root, basis and essence of humanities should be 
sought in the Holy Quran. This is a very important and fundamental task.
 If this is done, then intellectuals, researchers and experts in 
different fields of humanities can put up lofty buildings on the basis 
of this thought. Of course, when this is done, they can benefit from the
 achievements of other people - including westerners and those who have 
made certain achievements in the area of humanities - as well. However, 
the basis should be the Holy Quran. 
I hope that Allah the Exalted bestows success on you. I express my 
sincere gratitude to all the honorable and respectable ladies who are 
active in different Quranic areas in the country. Your presence in the 
arena of Quranic work will inspire the community of women in our 
country. By Allah's favor, your presence in Quranic arenas will draw the
 women of the country - that is to say, half the population - to the 
Holy Quran. 
If women establish a close relationship with the Holy Quran, many 
problems of society will be solved because future generations will be 
raised by women and because those women who are intimately familiar with
 the Holy Quran and Quranic concepts can play a very effective role in 
educating children. I hope that, by Allah's favor, the future of our 
society will be more Quranic than today in the shade of your great 
movement. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

