
<meta year="2009" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Outstanding Personalities of Kurdistan Province"/>
This meeting is a very nice and pleasant meeting for me. Although the
 friends and brothers in this meeting made good, constructive and 
fundamental statements and although we were at your service for more 
than two hours, I am not tired at all and I was and am ready to listen 
to other participants in this meeting. Of course, it is about noon and 
we are getting close to adhan and noon prayers. This is our only limit, 
but I am not tired at all. I said this because the honorable host 
pointed out in his statements that I am tired. This is not the case. I 
do not feel tired at all and I am ready to listen to your statements. 
However, we have limited time until noon.
What you friends, brothers and sisters pointed out was valuable for 
me because of two reasons. The first reason is that there were many 
valuable points - whether in cultural, economic or different other areas
 - in your speeches. By Allah's favor, we will benefit from these good 
points and opinions and I hope that we will utilize them in future 
decisions. The second reason is that I managed to see, with my own eyes,
 the outstanding capacities of this province - in areas related to 
manpower - in a fair which was limited in scope. Of course, since long 
ago, I have been familiar with the works of a number of outstanding 
Kurdish personalities. 
On the occasion of the presence of Mr. Ahmad Qazi - we were informed 
that he is the brother of the late Mohammad Qazi, the well-known 
translator - I would like to say that perhaps about 40 years ago or 
more, I read the first translation of the late Mohammad Qazi. I think it
 was the translation of the book "Mahatma Gandhi" written by Romain 
Rolland. Both the book and Mohammad Qazi's translation are really 
outstanding and prominent. 
A few years later, I read another translation done by him. It was a 
translation of another very important work written by Romain Rolland 
which is "Amour d'enfants". I think it has three, four volumes and the 
prose which Mr. Qazi used was really elegant and well-organized. 
Of course, I cannot say how exact and accurate the translation is. 
Those who know the original language can say whether it is accurate or 
not. However, this translation is really outstanding in terms of 
literary style and prose. I am familiar with the works of Persian 
translators and writers and I know how valuable they are. Considering 
this evaluation, I believe that the Mr. Qazi's translation is an 
outstanding one. I once saw him up close. At the end of my presidential 
term, I met with him in a Hafiz commemoration congress in Shiraz. He was
 introduced to me. He had a problem with his larynx and he was using a 
laryngophone to talk. We engaged in a short conversation. 
Another example is the translations done by the late Abdulrahman 
Sharafkandi - known as Hazhar - which was pointed out by the friends in 
this meeting. He has really carried out a great task. The translation of
 the book "Canon of Medicine", written by Avicenna, is really a complex 
and valuable task. This book - which was written in Arabic by an Iranian
 personality and which was used in great medical universities throughout
 the world for many centuries - had not been translated for a thousand 
years. 
I was aware that until a few years ago - perhaps until hundred years 
ago - "The Canon of Medicine" was a reference book in medical schools of
 European countries and that it had been translated in several European 
languages. But Persian-speakers were deprived of knowing "The Canon". In
 the middle years of my presidential term, I realized that the book "The
 Canon of Medicine" had not been translated. Therefore, I called on a 
group of people and I said to them that they should make an effort to 
translate "The Canon". An edict was issued and they pursued this matter.
 Well, such tasks require love. They cannot be carried out by issuing 
edicts and commands. In the meanwhile, I was informed that this book had
 already been translated. 
I think that it had about eight volumes. They brought me the late 
Hazhar's translation. When I read the book - I should add that we do not
 know much about medicine, nor did we try to compare it with the Arabic 
text - I saw that whoever reads the book bows down in respect before the
 cohesion and consistency of this beautiful prose. Well, this 
translation has been done. Of course, I did not know Mr. Hazhar. When I 
asked about him, they said that he was a Kurd. Later on, I was informed 
that he had passed away.
Also, I am familiar with a number of Kurdish poets including the late
 Sotudeh - the great Sayyid - who was a very good poet. I knew him since
 the early years of the Revolution and I used to meet with him until he 
became sick and went to stay in Sanandaj. I think it was in this city 
that he passed away. 
Another outstanding Kurdish poet is the late Golshan Kurdistani. I 
had read his poem before I met with him up close. I had such a 
familiarity with outstanding Kurdish personalities and the cultural 
characteristics of Kurdish people have always been imprinted in my mind 
as a fixed and clear truth. 
As I said, I saw a fair today and this was very valuable and precious
 for me. I wish we had the opportunity to meet with more outstanding 
personalities of this province so that they could present their ideas 
and thoughts. Without a doubt, this would have been more valuable for 
me. I hope that, by Allah's favor, we can benefit from what we saw and 
what we learned in order to help our dear country and this wealthy and 
resourceful province make progress. 
During the two days that I spent in Kurdistan, the focus of my 
speeches - whether in public meetings, in meetings with the armed forced
 of Kurdistan or in other meetings - was on describing the courage of 
Kurdish people. However I really came to the conclusion that the other 
beauties of this province and geographical area are superior to this 
characteristic - that is to say, courage and boldness - of the people of
 Kurdistan.
There are many beauties in this province: good behavior, mellifluous 
voice, beautiful nature, delicate poetry, lofty literature, enlightened 
thoughts and religious hearts. One can see these characteristics in this
 province and this should really be appreciated. 
Fortunately, these valuable characteristics are respected and praised
 in the Islamic Republic. We appreciate the value of these 
characteristics in the Islamic government. We appreciate these spiritual
 and cultural values wherever they exist including Kurdistan, Fars, 
Isfahan and Khorasan provinces. 
Outstanding Kurdish personalities are expected to promote and reflect
 this truth and this reality. Of course, this truth was reflected in the
 statements of the friends in this meeting and I know that, without a 
doubt, part of outstanding Kurdish personalities adopt such outlooks and
 think like this. 
The Islamic Republic does not really adopt discriminatory outlooks, 
whether towards Kurdistan or towards any other specific area in the 
country. When we repeatedly announced that we consider the existence of 
many ethnicities in our country to be an opportunity, this is the truth.
 The existence of different ethnicities is really an opportunity for us.
 The outlook that the Islamic Republic adopts towards tribal and 
religious diversity is not a biased, nepotistic and one-dimensional 
outlook. I am saying this for certain.
The Islamic Republic has not adopted this outlook in the present time
 - I am saying this on the basis of my own intentions - and it did not 
adopt such outlooks it in the past either. It did not adopt this outlook
 in the 1360s, during Imam's (may God bestow paradise on him) auspicious
 lifetime. The judgment of the Islamic Republic is on the basis of 
following Islam and being Iranian. Its judgment is one the basis of 
being Muslim and Iranian. On the basis of this outlook, all Muslims and 
all Iranians are valuable throughout the geographical range of the 
country. The Islamic Republic wants to establish this thought in a firm 
way. 
In my opinion, this province is a cultural province. I have said this
 many times. Some people have tried to turn this province into a 
dangerous and military one. They have distorted the truth. It was not 
the Islamic Republic that did this. Naturally, this could not be done by
 the Islamic Republic. So, who did this? 
This was done by the enemies of the Islamic Republic. They promoted 
the idea that the Islamic Republic does not like or accept Kurds and 
Sunni Islam. This was a lie. This was not the truth. Later on, it became
 clear and it was proven that this was a lie and everyone saw it. This 
outlook was one that was adopted by the taghuti regime. That regime used
 to adopt a discriminatory outlook by nature, not only towards Kurds but
 also towards all the different ethnicities of the country and it used 
to do this with different excuses. But this outlook became obsolete in 
the Islamic Republic. Well, the enemies did not want to let this happen.
 They had certain interests which dictated that what the Islamic 
Republic wants should not be achieved in this area of the country. 
Part of the backwardness and economic problems which exist in this 
province is the result of these malevolent acts, enmities and blind and 
severe hostilities. It was these enmities and hostilities which brought 
about these conditions for this province. These conditions have been 
brought about with the guidance of the enemies. I have read about these 
economic problems in reports and I am aware of what the gentlemen in 
this meeting pointed out. These are truths which should be rectified. 
However, I believe that the Islamic Republic has overcome these 
hostilities. This does not mean that these enmities have been uprooted. 
All of us are still responsible in this regard. Everyone should try to 
make Kurdistan and our Kurdish regions - with all their natural and 
human talents - achieve the position which they deserve to achieve in 
our dear, great and Islamic country. 
Some people do not want to let this happen. They are making efforts 
to prevent this, even in the present time. Among this cultural group of 
people, I do not like to speak about things which make our hearts ache. 
But these are true. Let me tell you in brief that the enemy is making 
certain efforts. You should pay attention to this. In the present time, 
the intelligence services of arrogance are openly pursuing their 
activities across our borders. 
Yesterday, I pointed to this issue in another meeting as well. CIA's 
agencies are officially and openly working on this and they are making 
an effort to hatch their plot in this regard. Their efforts are focused 
on guiding any orientation which they can use against the Islamic 
Republic. These are not analyses. Rather, these are facts that we are 
aware of. Therefore, this requires vigilance. 
Our organizations should be vigilant in the present time. The people 
are also expected to do certain things. But there are more expectations 
of the outstanding personalities of the country and of this province. 
There are certain expectations of you who have a correct understanding 
and knowledge of pains and cures and who are well-informed about many 
issues because of your intellectual minds. The masses of the people are 
not as well-informed as you are about these issues. 
The Islamic Republic has brought a new idea to the arena. Contrary to
 what they say and promote, the Islamic Republic is not after creating 
enemies for itself, it is not after creating uproar and it is not after 
fighting and making trouble. This is another propaganda which has been 
promoted by the enemies and opponents of the Islamic Republic. If there 
is any trouble, it is because of the nature of the Islamic Republic. 
This nature is adopting an independent outlook towards global issues and
 taking care not to be influenced by powers in both small and great 
events.
This is one of the teachings and lessons of Islam. This is a command 
which Islam has issued to us. Islam does not want Muslim peoples to 
follow those centers of power which follow their own arrogant interests 
and selfish outlooks. It does not want Muslim peoples to do this in 
their orientations, movements, policies and decisions. From the 
viewpoint of Islam, it is the responsibility of officials to act 
according to the interests of their people and the Islamic Ummah. For 
this reason, we have not been influenced by the policies of arrogant and
 dominant powers. 
On different issues, the opinions of the Islamic Republic were 
different from the opinions of the enemies. This is not acceptable for 
them and this is why they have begun their enmity towards us. Therefore,
 the Islamic Republic has to defend itself. This is the nature of 
resistance and independence. It creates friction. It would be possible 
for the people of Iran to have a government which would give in to the 
bullying of different powers. If they had such a government, then these 
frictions would definitely not exist. But friction would not be the only
 thing which would not exist. Other things - such as national dignity 
and progress - would not exist either. This was what we used to see 
during the time of taghut.
The figures that I spoke about in the meeting which was held in the 
great square of this city are instructive figures. Considering all its 
capacities, your province only had 365 students 30 years ago. I am 
saying this on the basis of official and recorded statistics. At that 
time, literacy in this province was only 29 percent. 
Of course, the problems which exist today in Kurdistan did not exist 
in those days. But it suffered from lack of identity, it was in terrible
 conditions and it was weak and humiliated. Is this tolerable? And you 
can extend these conditions to all the people of Iran. The same terrible
 conditions existed everywhere.
Those who were part of the taghuti regime wrote certain books and 
memoirs about these conditions. When one reads these books, one feels 
deeply embarrassed. In those days, the outstanding personalities and 
decision-makers of the country had to go to America's and England's 
ambassadors to make decisions about a hundred-percent domestic issues 
and to formulate fundamental guidelines for the country. They had to go 
to these ambassadors to see if they were opposed to these decisions or 
not. 
This is not something which has been made up by the opponents of the 
regime. Rather, these are facts which have been written by the 
supporters of the regime themselves. Of course, these facts could be 
witnessed in the documents which we found. In the present time, they are
 openly writing about such issues as well. 
I have come across a book recently and I have started to read it. 
When one reads this book, one is really surprised. Where is that 
national pride? Where is that national dignity? Where is that feeling of
 pride about being an Iranian? Where is that reliance on the people who 
have a glorious past and a dignified historical legacy? None of these 
things existed during the time of taghut. Pahlavi rulers took these 
things away in one way and before them, Qajar rulers took them away in 
another way. Each of them was worse than the other. 
The Islamic Republic put an end to these humiliations. We should pay 
attention to this issue as an astonishing, enlightening and valuable 
truth and we should carry out our evaluations and measures on the basis 
of this truth. I feel that the honorable and dear personalities of this 
province can play important roles in this area which is, in fact, a 
cultural-political area.
Building outstanding personalities is another important 
responsibility of outstanding personalities. As you can see, there are 
thankfully many outstanding youth in this province such as the lady who 
delivered a speech in this meeting. One can feel that our young students
 - whether boys or girls - are outstanding talents. Of course, these 
talents exist everywhere in the country. Thankfully, one can clearly see
 these talents in this province too. 
Part of the responsibility of building outstanding personalities is 
related to decision-making and executive organizations. It is their 
responsibility to follow up this issue. By Allah's favor, we will ask 
them to follow up these issues, both the issues that you pointed out in 
this meeting and all other issues. But part of this responsibility is 
related to outstanding personalities themselves. Part of this 
responsibility is related to professors and teachers of religion, 
literature, culture and science. They should influence the minds of 
youth in their workplace and in their academic and educational 
environments. 
You should pay attention that the enemy is worried and unhappy about 
the existence of a united, cohesive and pioneering Iran which has 
achieved great glories. They do not want this task to be carried out. 
Today, this great movement has been launched in the shade of Islam which
 is our religion and which is the main spiritual force behind uniting 
our people. They want to destroy this movement. Of course, they have 
failed and by Allah's favor, they will continue to fail. However, we 
should not be negligent about their plots. In my opinion, our dear and 
honorable personalities have a great responsibility in this regard. 
I should add that some of the points which the friends in this 
meeting raised have already been thought about. These issues have been 
worked on and thought about and certain decisions have been made about 
them. But some of the points which were raised in this meeting are new 
and they should receive attention. 
As for the issue which is related to students and academic 
researchers - it was pointed out in this meeting that this issue has not
 received any attention and that no budget has been allocated to it - I 
would like to remind you of the newly-established Presidential Deputy in
 Charge of Scientific Affairs. It is a very good organization and it is 
the reference point for such affairs. Besides, it has accomplished good 
and great feats. In my opinion, you should pay attention and go to this 
deputy. I hope that Allah the Exalted bestows success on all of you. 
Today's meeting was very valuable for me because I met you - 
particularly a number of honorable personalities among you - in person 
and I listened to very good, valuable and constructive statements. I 
hope that, by Allah's favor, this meeting will bring about great 
advantages for the future of Kurdistan and for the future of the 
country. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
