
<meta year="2009" title="Leader's Speech to Armed Forces of Kurdistan"/>
The following is the full text of the speech delivered on May 13, 2009 by Ayatollah Sayyid Ali Khamenei the Leader of the Islamic Revolution to the Armed Forces of Kurdistan Province.
I thank Allah the Exalted to have given me the opportunity to meet with the brave and prepared Armed Forces of Kurdistan - the land of jihad and brave people - on this parade ground.
Kurdistan is a unique land in our contemporary history in terms of the sacrifices and martyrdom of its people. The enemies of the Islamic Republic - who had adopted hostile policies against the Islamic Republic - focused all their attention on this particular region. The Islamic Republic emerged victorious out of this great test by relying on the faith and bravery of its faithful people. The Armed Forces - the Army, the IRGC, the Basij, and the police force - performed great actions in different ways in this province. The brave people of Kurdistan - the Kurdish Muslims who laid down their lives in defense of their people and helped mobilize the troops of this province - showed great enthusiasm and faith on the battlefields. Their actions will undoubtedly go down in history among the greatest heroic actions of the Iranian nation. The people of this region demonstrated great sincerity and fully cooperated with the Armed Forces. And the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic - which were in fact composed of the youth who had come together from different parts of the country - also proved that they are always ready to protect the people and their security. This is an important point. 
Throughout history, armed forces have been formed in different societies to defend those who are in power. But in the Islamic Republic, the Armed Forces ensure people's security and safety. The logic behind the formation of armed forces is that they should provide security for the people. This duty has been performed efficiently by the Islamic Republic's Armed Forces ever since the victory of the Islamic Revolution. What the Armed Forces did in this region - both in this province and other parts of the country - was the true manifestation of this logic. 
This is the case today as well. I would like to emphatically point out to you dear youth who are present on this parade ground - the brave Basij members who are natives of this region, and the members of the Army, the IRGC, and the police force - that the Islamic Republic's Armed Forces should serve to ensure the security of the people. Every single effort which you make to improve your knowledge or military skills is a virtuous deed which will please God. You can make these efforts with the intention of getting closer to God. And this is a great advantage for our devoted youth, Armed Forces, and military commanders. 
My dear ones, the presence of the Armed Forces during the early stages of the Islamic Revolution helped foil the enemies' plots which were aimed at causing turmoil and fratricide in this part of the country. Today, this region has thankfully been secured against the enemies' plots. The Armed Forces are vigilant, aware, and powerful. But I stress that you should not be oblivious to the enemies' plots, neither in this region nor in any other part of the country. The Islamic Republic has stood up to global arrogant and oppressive powers and should always be prepared to deal with the plots, encroachment, invasion, and harmful activities of the enemies. Therefore, you should always be prepared. There is a verse in the Holy Quran in this regard: "And make ready for them whatever force you can and horses tied at the frontier." [The Holy Quran, 8:60]. Being prepared is a national duty, but the Armed Forces shoulder a heavier responsibility in this regard. We have been informed and we have accurate information that the enemies of the Islamic Republic and the Iranian nation are hatching plots and trying to cause insecurity even in areas close to our borders. You should stay vigilant in this regard. 
Today, the majority of assassinations and violent inhuman operations in this region are carried out by the intelligence services of the global arrogant powers. Those who have occupied Iraq are the main suspects in the majority of the terrorist operations which are targeted at innocent civilians. Those who claim to oppose terrorism organize the most severe and blind terrorist operations. And the Islamic Republic which is the main target of these criminal plots should be vigilant in this regard. Our nation is vigilant. Our Armed Forces and officials also feel the heavy weight of this duty on their shoulders. They should be prepared, and they are. 
The enemies of the Islamic Republic must have learnt from experience that the Islamic Republic is not a belligerent state or one to start a conflict with other countries. During the past thirty years, no government or nation has ever been threatened by the government of the Islamic Republic. But this great nation and the Islamic Republic will not hesitate to respond to any threats. Thankfully, this state of preparedness prevails both among the Armed Forces and the enthusiastic people. You dear personnel of the Islamic Republic's Armed Forces should increase this preparedness on a daily basis. 
You should know that a nation can only defend its grandeur and existence in the true sense of the word when it is independent, relies on its own capabilities and determination, and maintains its preparedness through reliance on God. By Allah's favor, the Iranian nation will increase its preparedness on a day to day basis and the enemies of the Islamic Republic will not achieve their goals through threats, plots, and malevolence. 
Dear God, bestow Your blessings and mercy on these faithful, brave, and sincere youth. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
