
<meta year="2002" title="Leader's Address to Education Ministry Officials"/>
Further in his speech, the Leader referred to U.S. hostilities against the Islamic Republic. He stressed that such animosities stem from the fact that the Iranian people, motivated by Islam and the revolution and their strong belief in Almighty Allah, have decided to be independent and refuse to bow to the hegemony of big powers. 
Regarding the remarks made by U.S. President George W. Bush about Iran, Ayatollah Khamenei pointed out that the statement should be carefully studied by political experts, as it includes many points that throw light on the domineering U.S. policies, particularly its hostile attitude toward the Iranian nation.
The Leader noted that because of Iranian people's refusal to submit to U.S. domination, the White House officials aim to take revenge on this great nation. Ayatollah Khamenei further said that the remarks also reveal the confusion of U.S. politicians and policy-makers in the face of this nation and revolution. 
"They are really confused and do not know what to do! They clutch at straws! Once in while, they change their tone and try every political ploy to deceive the Iranian people! But they always fail to achieve their goals and all their efforts prove futile!" 
Concerning the points in Bush's remarks, the Leader said:
"The first point that is deduced from this statement is that U.S. government has not yet lost its insatiable greed for domination of our country. They are still thinking of restoring their evil domination of Iran, which intensified with the coup on August 19, 1953, and continued until the victory of the Islamic Revolution in 1979. They are still dreaming of the days when the head of state in this country, namely the corrupt and treacherous Mohammad Reza [Pahlavi], made no decisions until he consulted with U.S. officials. Actually, he had to consult with the U.S. ambassador in Tehran even about minor affairs related to a minister or prime minister or about any political measure that he intended to take, and he had to get directives from the U.S. ambassador first." 
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say, "Despite claims of advocating democracy and human rights often repeated by U.S. officials, who wrongly claim that they support democracy and elected governments, Washington is currently pinning its hopes on the scummy remnants of the corrupt royal regime. U.S. officials are still looking to the remnants of the corrupt and subservient Pahlavi regime, aiming to restore that regime in this country.
"In fact, U.S. officials have no belief in the principles of democracy and elected governments that they often claim to advocate. Of course, we do not expect them to be truthful to the Iranian nation, as they even lie to their own people!"
As regards the next point inferred from the statement issued by the U.S. president, the Leader stated, "The second point that is worthy of consideration in this statement is that the United States is repeating the serious mistakes of the past by trying to sow discord among different officials and political factions in this country, despite the fact that the futility of this policy has been proved on several occasions.
"However, this time, considering that their previous attempts including the subversive and spying measures have all ended in failure, the U.S. president has personally intervened to create divisions in society by saying that Washington approves of this and disapproves of that official, as if the Iranian people have been waiting to see which one of their officials or political factions is approved or disapproved by Washington! 
"But they are still lying! In other words, they do not really approve of those officials or political factions that they claim to support! Otherwise, if the Iranian people make sure that certain officials or political factions are really supported by the United States, they will oppose those officials or factions because of their resentment toward the United States!"
Regarding the outcome of this U.S. policy, Ayatollah Khamenei noted, "However, this U.S. policy has so far failed and will not succeed in the future either! Our respected president, by the stance that he took on this matter, gave a very sharp response to the U.S. president. Furthermore, although different political factions in the country have some differences of opinion on certain issues, they took a united stance on this issue, as was quite expected from them. They all told the U.S. administration: Mind your own business! Stop meddling in our internal affairs!" 
Further referring to Bush's statement, the Leader said, "Moreover, in his statement, the U.S. president has talked about human rights and support of nations. To make these remarks, one should really be very impudent! The United States has committed all sorts of crimes in many countries, the last of which was Afghanistan. Besides the great suffering that the U.S. forces inflicted on innocent people during their attacks on that country under the pretext of fighting the Taliban or a certain group, more disasters and tragedies are still being created by them in Afghanistan. The U.S. planes regularly bomb various parts of that country, killing tens of innocent people and injuring hundreds of others. Then U.S. officials announce that they have made a mistake, but they stop short of apologizing for their mistake! For instance, the U.S. planes recently bombed a group of Afghan people who were heading for the capital Kabul to take part in a political ceremony. Then U.S. officials said they had thought those people were members of a certain group! But they did not apologize for killing those innocent people! This is what they call love for mankind!
"Besides, the United States is definitely complicit in the crimes that are being committed by savage Zionists against innocent Palestinians in the occupied territories of Palestine. These crimes had never been committed in the past even by the former colonialists! Undoubtedly, at least half of the blame for these crimes should be put on U.S. officials because of their blind support for the Zionist regime. Now the U.S. president, who is on record as expressing his approval for further Zionist atrocities against Palestinians, is claiming to support nations and human rights! This really shows utmost impudence!"
As regards the next point in the statement, Ayatollah Khamenei stated, "In his statement, Bush also said that the Iranian people are eager to make progress. There is no doubt about this, as Iranians are working hard to make progress and achieve development. The Islamic Revolution paved the way for progress and development in this country, and both Iranian people and officials are making great efforts in this regard. But, in fact, it is the United States that cannot tolerate our progress and development. The U.S. officials, because of their hostility toward this nation, are trying hard to create hurdles in the way of Iran's progress and development. As you can see, in the international arena and in political and economic spheres, they are using every pressure lever and hatching every plot against the Iranian nation and government.
"It is true that the Iranian nation wants to make progress. But it is also true that Iranians, like many other nations across the world, hate the U.S. government! This is also a reality! The results of an opinion poll conducted a couple of months ago showed that the U.S. administration is the most hated government in the eyes of Muslim nations as well as other nations in Asia! In other words, it is not only the Iranian nation that hates the United States. 
"Of course one day it was only in Iran that the U.S. flag or effigy of the U.S. president or some other American symbol was set on fire. But today almost everywhere in the world, even in European countries, the U.S. flag is set on fire! This is because the dictatorial regime of the United States is of ill repute and hated throughout the world."
Elsewhere in his remarks, Leader of the Islamic Republic pointed out that U.S. president has claimed that he supports a faction called reformists in Iran. The Leader noted that the claim is a sheer lie, since the United States supports no faction from among the factions faithful to the Islamic Revolution. 
"Besides, U.S. officials are not even in favor of real reform in this country because any real reform here will surely be against the interests and policies of the dictatorial and domineering regime of the United States! Furthermore, if the United States itself prescribes something called reform for the Iranian people, this nation will definitely throw it into the wastebasket!"
The Leader further stated that the greatest reformist move in this country was taken through the Islamic Revolution under the leadership of Imam Khomeini.
"Even today, any action that is taken to consolidate the foundations of the revolution and enforce our progressive constitution is undoubtedly a reformist move, and it will be supported by the people. In general, any measure intended to promote progress in political, economic, social, scientific, ethical and religious areas is a reformist move, and it will be welcomed by the Iranian nation." 
Ayatollah Khamenei added that what constitutes the basis of real reforms is the struggle against poverty, corruption and discrimination. 
"The worst kinds of corruption in society are the rise in poverty and the widening of the gap between the rich and the poor. Economic and financial corruption and using the public purse to further one's interests are also among the worst types of corruption. Discrimination in the enforcement of law and disregard for the capabilities and qualifications of individuals are also among the worst kinds of corruption. Iranian people have underlined that they consider measures to eliminate poverty, corruption and discrimination to be the real reforms. This is what the Iranian people want. But this is not what the United States wants! The U.S. president would not like such measures to be taken in this country!"
In conclusion, Leader of the Islamic Republic stated:
"Today, in the face of such hostilities, what is most important for the Iranian nation is unity and brotherhood. Different factions should further try to bridge over their differences and not weaken people's hopes and aspirations. Unfortunately, some in the country infuse hope into the enemy due to their indiscretion. Bush had wrongly hoped that there would be a student uprising against the Islamic system in Tehran on July 9, but our vigilant and wise students disappointed the enemy.
"My dear brothers and sisters! What will frustrate the enemy and preserve the honor and dignity of this nation is unity pivoting on Islam and the revolution. The enemy claims that we are seeking weapons of mass destruction in order to strengthen our system. This is another wrong assumption and analysis on their part. We believe that a resolved, devoted and united nation is much stronger than an atomic bomb, as no power can overcome this nation! 
"As you all know, there have been all sorts of hostilities and plots against this country ever since the victory of the Islamic Revolution. Did we neutralize these plots and hostilities with an atomic bomb? Indeed, what has preserved the dignity of this nation, brought honor on the Islamic system and perpetuated the name of Imam Khomeini has been the firm resolve and strong belief of Iranian people as well as their unity and solidarity." 
