
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Speech to People of Gilan"/>
 
Dear  brothers and sisters, welcome. Dear friendly people of Gilan, I would  like to welcome all of you, especially the honorable families of martyrs  and war veterans and the good-natured youth. 
Thank  you all for your determination to travel from Rasht and Gilan to attend  this meeting. We have noticed determination among the people of Gilan -  both in their ancient history and their contemporary history. I believe  the biggest achievement of the people of Gilan is that in spite of the  propaganda and schemes of the satanic Pahlavi regime to ideologically  corrupt the people of Gilan over many years, the people of that region  had so much faith, sincerity and vigilance and made so many selfless  efforts that they are considered among the prominent provinces of the  country. This is very important. The malevolent, corrupting and corrupt  organizations of the satanic Pahlavi regime used all their resources to  attract the people towards corruption, yet the people preserved their  religion, faith, beliefs and determination and demonstrated them when  necessary. There were the organizations of the satanic Pahlavi regime on  the one hand, and the anti-religion grouplets on the other.
I  made a trip to Rasht during the early years after the victory of the  Revolution. Shahid Azodi took me to the big square in the city of Rasht.  Different grouplets had filled everywhere with their placards and  slogans. They had taken full control of the university, and they thought  that Gilan belonged to them. The faithful people of Gilan - the  faithful and revolutionary youth of that province - entered the scene  without the help of any organization and raised the flag of Islam,  monotheism and the Revolution, forcing all those people off the scene.  This shows how faithful the people of Gilan are.
It  is true that Mirza Kuchak Khan Jangali is the symbol of the bravery and  jihad of the people of Gilan - the man who rose up against foreigners  and aggressors for the sake of Islam and the Quran, and his memory  should never be forgotten. But after the Islamic Revolution, there has  been no shortage of the people who have managed to make Gilan a symbol  in different arenas. The Quds Army of Gilan, the basijis of Gilan, the  faithful youth of Gilan, the students and intellectuals of Gilan, the  academics of Gilan and the honorable religious scholars of Gilan played a  prominent role in different eras, which was manifested in different  ways. And one would end up with a long list if one was determined to  list all the ways in which the people of Gilan manifested their  prominent role - whether during the Sacred Defense Era, or during the  fight against the anti-revolutionaries, or after the imposed war had  ended. But one clear instance of this was manifested on the 9th of Dey  last year, when the Iranian nation decided to step onto the scene in a  unified manner. Rasht was among the first few cities that entered the  arena one day before the rest of the country. On the 8th of Dey - which  coincides with today - the people of Gilan manifested this insight, this  determination and this perceived need to enter the scene one day before  the rest of the country. These qualities should be preserved. The  essential assets of a nation are the same things that are indicative of  insight, determination, vigilance and awareness. It is necessary to  preserve these things. 
Dear brothers and sisters,  our nation was pressured for many years by the corrupt leaders who  ruled this country and by the arrogant powers that were seeking to  spread their domination over the world. They kept us backward. In terms  of scientific and historical legacy, our people are not a nation that  would rank one of the last nations if all scientists, scholars,  luminaries and global scientific innovations were listed. We would be  listed at the top. This is our record. These are our talents. Those who  kept our great country, our civilized country, our Islamic country  backward over many years in the arena of science and in the arena of  material and spiritual progress - these people betrayed the Iranian  nation and committed a crime against it. The Revolution put an end to  their influence. 
We must pursue this path. We  need to be determined. We need to change the wrong orders that have  brought about backwardness for nations, especially our nation. We need  to make up for the backwardness we have suffered so far. All these  things require determination and hope. If a nation loses hope in the  future or its determination to open up new paths and move towards the  goals is undermined, it will lose its dignity. The Iranian nation needs  to preserve this determination all the time and increase this hope on a  daily basis. Our country has this attitude. Thankfully, our people have  been demonstrating this attitude. Therefore, we have made far more  progress during the past 30 years than an ordinary nation could. Even  our enemies admit this fact. But our slogan is a global one. Our slogans  are about the entire humanity. Our slogans are about putting an end to  the interference of the arrogant powers in the affairs of our country  and our nation. The arrogant powers cannot tolerate this. Therefore,  they design plots.
Last year's fitna was a  manifestation of the plots designed by the enemies. What happened was a  fitna, which means that some people used righteous slogans to convey  purely wrong messages with the purpose of deceiving the people. But they  failed. The purpose of a fitna is to mislead the people. Notice that it  was our people themselves who stood up against the fitna. The 9th of  Dey gave the elements of the fitna a powerful punch in the mouth. And it  was the people who did this. As analysts, luminaries and others have  repeatedly pointed out, the movement was one that was started by the  people themselves. This is a very significant point. It shows that our  people are vigilant. Our enemies should try to understand this message.  Those who think that they can separate the people from the Islamic  system should try to understand that this Islamic system is one that  belongs to the people. The advantage that our Islamic system enjoys is  that it belongs to the people. Primarily, it is the people themselves  who are making every effort to preserve Islam and the Islamic system and  to keep this flag flying in the country. Our enemies should try to  understand this. The leaders of the arrogant governments - headed by  America - speak against our nation. Sometimes they design plots. Other  times they shout slogans. Sometimes they make hypocritical comments.  Other times they explicitly oppose us. Yet other times they disguise  their enmity. These are all due to the fact that they do not have an  appropriate understanding of Iran and the Iranian nation. Our nation is  vigilant. 
I would like to emphatically advise our  people to preserve this determination and this intensified effort. I  named this year "The Year of Intensified Effort and Labor". Fortunately,  the signs of intensified effort are visible in different matters across  the country. Our government officials, our luminaries and our  high-ranking managers in charge of different sectors are adopting good  measures. This intensified effort is something necessary, but it is not  limited to this year. It is necessary to continue making intensified  effort in the future. Our dear nation should continue moving forward and  conquer such peaks that the enemies are completely disappointed at  taking control of the destiny of this nation. You should make the enemy  disappointed. When the enemy of a nation is disappointed, the nation  will get rid of it.
The big sin that some  seditionists commit in the country is to make the enemy hopeful. They  make the enemy feel hopeful that it can create a hole among the people,  among different elements, among the government officials. Their actions  made the enemy hopeful last year. This was while that impressive  election, that great public presence and that impressive voter turnout  could go a long way and make the Iranian nation successful in many  political arenas. They caused a fitna. Therefore, the enemy that should  have been disappointed by the great public movement became hopeful that  it can harm the Revolution.
It was a great  challenge. On the one hand, the enemy was supporting them, providing  political help and mentioning their names. The enemy was mentioning the  names of the seditionists. On the other hand, the Iranian nation was  standing firm and was present on the scene. Just as the Iranian nation  demonstrated innovation, bravery, selflessness and presence in different  arenas for eight years during the Sacred Defense Era, so it truly  demonstrated skill for eight months during the soft war. When one takes a  look at the issues and tries to consider things from a higher  perspective, one gets astonished at how the hand of divine power guides  hearts and souls towards His goals. It was an act of God. God is with  you. It is God who guides you. It is God who makes our hearts pay  attention to the right path. 
We need to preserve  and strengthen our relationship with God. Willpower of the people, their  actions, their determination and their presence accompanied by  attention to God and hearts that are prepared for supplication - these  are the characteristics of a divine movement. These are very important.  We should strengthen our relationship with God. We should not let our  hearts go in a direction that would make us drift away from God. "Our  Lord, make not our hearts deviate after You have guided us, and grant  mercy on us." [The Holy Quran, 3: 8] This is the dua that the Holy Quran  teaches us.
Fortunately, our youth attract divine  mercy with their pure and enlightened hearts and their presence in  different religious ceremonies. And one of the instances of attracting  divine mercy was the 9th of Dey. By the blessedness of the memory of  Hussein ibn Ali, the Lord of the Martyrs (a.s.), the people stepped onto  the scene and put an end to the activities of the seditionists. 
Today  we should be vigilant. We should not let our determination be  undermined in any area in the slightest way. Our government officials  are responsible in this regard. The vigilant groups of people who are  aware of the issues of our society have a heavier responsibility to  shoulder. Our youth have a responsibility to fulfill. People from  different social backgrounds are responsible. Rely on divine grace. Be  confident about divine guidance. You should know that Allah the Exalted  has determined a good destiny for our honorable nation. We should make  efforts to reach that destiny. 
Dear God, by the  blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household, bestow Your  blessings on this nation. Dear God, associate the pure souls of our dear  martyrs and the holy soul of our magnanimous Imam - who opened up this  path in front of us - with Your saints in the hereafter. Dear God,  reward those who render services to the people, and convey our greetings  to the Imam of the Age (Allah's greetings be upon him). 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
