
<meta year="2002" title="Leader's Statements in a Meeting with Haidar Aliyev"/>
Ayatollah Khamenei further referred to the talks between the Iranian President, Mohammad Khatami, and his Azerbaijani counterpart and described the talks as comprehensive and constructive. He also hoped that the two sides would follow through on the agreements reached with determination.
Elsewhere in his remarks, the Leader pointed out that there are many religious, historical and cultural affinities between the two neighboring Iranian and the Azerbaijani nations.
"Therefore, the consolidation and expansion of relations between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Republic of Azerbaijan will serve the interests of both nations. Furthermore, we attach great importance to the stability in Azerbaijan, since any instability in you country will be harmful to us as well," the Leader told the Azerbaijani president.
As regards the issue of the Caspian Sea, Ayatollah Khamenei stated:
"We believe that all major issues, including the issue of the Caspian Sea, could be solved through cooperation and the exchange of views. Besides, the Caspian Sea issue should be resolved by the littoral states themselves, and foreign powers should not be allowed to interfere."
Referring to the dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the Leader noted:
"We believe this dispute should be and can be settled through peaceful means. However, some outside powers would not like the regional disputes to be settled peacefully. Thus, the parties involved in the conflict had better seek the mediation of other regional counties.
"The Islamic Republic of Iran is ready to do all it can in order to find a peaceful solution to the conflict between Armenia and the Republic of Azerbaijan. We pray to Almighty Allah to help the regional nations achieve unity and harmony and solve their problems themselves through cooperation without inviting the interference of the outside powers."
Further in his statements, Ayatollah Khamenei referred to the covetous attitude of some countries like the Untied States and the Zionist regime toward the Caspian region. 
"We feel that the United States and the Zionist regime are pursuing certain objectives in the Caspian region which run counter to the interests of the regional nations.
"Unfortunately, the Muslim nations have long experienced great sufferings at the hands of these powers. Presently the Zionists, enjoying the full support of the United States, are committing all sorts of crimes and atrocities against the innocent Palestinians in the occupied territories, and a real human catastrophe is currently being witnessed in the occupied Palestine, but no action is being taken to alleviate the plight of the oppressed Palestinian nation.
"We believe that if the Muslim nations and countries, which share many commonalities, close ranks and get closer to each other, they will be able to protect and promote their interests with more strength and to a greater extent."
In conclusion, Leader of the Islamic Republic stated:
"I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow on us the success in consolidating and expanding our relations and cooperation. As you pointed out, the mutual cooperation in the area of transportation is of very great significance. The Islamic Republic of Iran will make every effort to provide you with the access to the high seas. If the railroad that you mentioned is constructed, it will help to link two major regions of the world.
"I hope more efforts will be made to expand cooperation between our countries in all possible areas."
