
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Speech to Thousands of Basijis from Qom Province"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord  of the Worlds, and peace and greetings upon our Master and Prophet,  Ab-al-Qassem Al-Mustafa Muhammad, and upon his immaculate and infallible  household, especially the one remaining with Allah on earth. Greetings  be upon you Fatima Masoumeh, our master, the daughter of Musa ibn  Ja'far. Greeting of Allah and His angels and chosen servants be upon you  and your immaculate ancestors.
The gathering of  the dear basijis - who enjoy warm and enlightened hearts and firm  determination - in this holy center in the presence of the holy soul of  the great and pure lady, the daughter of Musa ibn Ja'far, is a sign and a  flag to demonstrate the grandeur and progressiveness of the Islamic  Republic.
The mere presence of millions of  enthusiastic, faithful, sincere and insightful youth from across the  country in the Basij is enough to prove that this government is dynamic,  purposeful, determined and progressive. This presence is enough to show  that this government and this great movement by the Iranian nation are  immune to the most complex plots and the most dangerous moves of the  enemy. Of course this is not a slogan - it is based on logical  reasoning. 
The idea to establish the Basij was a  sign of divine power which was bestowed on that righteous servant of  God, that great man and that unique figure in the history of Islam after  the infallible Imams (a.s.). The idea to establish the Basij was  proposed and practiced by our magnanimous Imam (r.a.). He stood up for  this idea with all his power. He took care of this sapling until is  became an immaculate tree which yields "its fruit in every season by the  permission of its Lord". [The Holy Quran, 14: 25] The idea to establish  the Basij was one of the blessings that God bestowed on that great man  and that righteous and humble servant of God. The Imam's insightful eyes  saw these signs of divine power. The problem with us is that we  sometimes feel divine assistance but fail to see it appropriately. We  fail to realize what great assistance is being bestowed on us. But the  Imam saw that sign.
I have told this anecdote many  times before. Once the Imam told me, "Since the beginning of the  Revolution up until today, I have seen a powerful hand helping us  everywhere." It was about 1365 when he said this. He used to see this  powerful hand. The Imam's outlook on the Iranian nation was different  from those of others. If we had decided to ask many religious and  non-religious scientific elites to evaluate the Iranian nation at that  time, we would have received weird evaluations. Some people did not  consider this nation as faithful. Some others did not think the Iranian  nation was sincere. Yet others had doubts about the power and loyalty of  the people. I heard these things from many people. But in the year  1341, when there was no sign of massive public demonstrations, the Imam  said in the city of Qom that the people would gather all over the plain  around Qom and pledge their allegiance to him if he just asked them to.  This was what he thought of the people. He knew the people. He  discovered the valuable element in the hearts and souls of the people  and made use of it. Therefore, the Islamic Revolution achieved victory  in spite of the obstacles on its way. No analyst could believe such an  event would take place in Iran. He trusted God and took action. He  formed a bond with the hearts of the people and encouraged them to step  into the arena. Then this great movement took place, and he proposed the  idea of establishing the Basij later on. 
You are  the sweet fruits of that immaculate tree which was planted in this land  by the Imam himself. The tree will continue producing fruits. "Have you  not considered how Allah sets forth a parable of a good word (being)  like an immaculate tree, whose root is firm and whose branches are in  heaven, yielding its fruit in every season by the permission of its  Lord? And Allah sets forth parables for men that they may be mindful."  [The Holy Quran, 14: 24-25] When the land is fertile and prepared and  when the seed is pure, the tree will never stop growing. That is to say,  nothing will be able to harm it. The Basij is such an immaculate tree. 
The Basij has been through a lot of tests. During the  Sacred Defense Era, the young generation before you made a lot of  achievements in the battlefield. I saw the talents of those youth  blossoming. The youth who were only 23 or 24 years old used to act like  experienced commanders. They used to mobilize soldiers and lead them  appropriately to achieve victory. These things are extraordinary. The  Basij played its role during the Sacred Defense Era. Both the Army and  the Army of the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution admitted that the  Basij played a determining role in different stages of the long and  difficult battle.
When the imposed war was over,  some superficial people thought the Basij was over too. But the Basij  continued its presence because there were other areas in which selfless  efforts were needed. The Basij is present wherever there are selfless  efforts - selfless efforts in the arena of knowledge, selfless efforts  in the arena of politics, selfless efforts in the arena of social  activities, selfless efforts in the vast international arena. These  selfless efforts are being still being made, and they will continue in  the future as well.
Basij means joining faith and  action together - not just action, but selfless action. From an Islamic  perspective, faith without action is the minimum requirement. Perfect  and genuine faith is one that is accompanied by jihad in the arena of  action. "Those who believed and left their homes and struggled for the  cause of Allah, and those who took them in and helped them - these are  the believers in truth." [The Holy Quran, 8: 74] A true believer is one  whose faith is accompanied by jihad and assistance for other believers.  This and many other Quranic verses reject the wrong and misguided idea  that faith minus action and jihad is enough to get close to God. The  Basij is based on the idea that faith must be accompanied by action -  selfless action. Therefore, there are various arenas for jihad. 
The Basij has been growing until today. The progress of  the Basij in various dimensions is the kind of progress that is expected  by anybody who is familiar with the Basij. The Basij has had both  quantitative and qualitative growth. It has also resisted in the face of  the factors that can shake people's faith - namely, temptations. The  Basij has emerged victorious out of all the tests it has faced.
Insight, sincerity and timely and proportional action  are the three elements that should be taken into consideration by all  dear basijis and all the youth who are active in different parts of this  great arena. You should always keep these elements in mind and join  them together. These three elements should be our standard. 
Insight is what determines the path. The honorable  commander who spoke in this meeting rightly pointed out that our basijis  have managed to keep abreast of the complexities of new situations by  making their thoughts and characters more sophisticated. The events that  happened in the year 1388 bear testimony to this fact. The situation  was confusing enough to cause many people to make a mistake - and many  people did make a mistake. Although most of the people who had made a  mistake rectified their mistake in a short period of time, the great  Basij movement preserved the criterion and the flag of insight. The  Basij did not make a mistake. As the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.)  said, the truth cannot be identified through prominent figures. A  dignified man is honorable and trustworthy, but he cannot be the  standard for truth. Sometimes dignified men - like some companions of  the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) - make a mistake and follow the wrong path. 
It is necessary to identify the truth. It is necessary  to identify the path in order to be able to tell if somebody is  righteous or not. Whoever treads the right path is righteous, and  whoever does not tread the right path should be rejected. It is  necessary to identify the truth. The young and faithful people who have  gathered under the flag of the Basij showed that they enjoy this  insight. They showed that they are insightful. Insight is the first  element, and it should remain so in the future. It is necessary to  develop the ability to think critically. As the founder of this great  movement to whom our society owes a debt of gratitude, Imam Khomeini  (r.a.) said, "If I strayed away from Islam, the people would turn their  back on me." The standard is Islam, not individuals. This is what our  Imam said. He taught us how to identify the right path and the right  move. He taught us how to identify the enemy's plots so that we can  realize which move is in line with its plans and which move is against  its plans. Therefore, insight is the first element, and it should not be  forgotten.  
Sincerity is the second element.  According to a narration, if somebody who is fighting for a divine cause  goes after the spoils of war and gets killed as a result, he has not  been martyred in the way of God. Following the divine path for the sake  of God is the requirement for being considered a martyr and mujahid.  That is to say, a martyr should have sincerity. If our movement is  affected by our personal or familial motives and our friendships, then  this sincerity becomes impure and leads to certain problems. Lack of  sincerity shows its effects one way or another.
Timely  and proportional action is the third element. It is necessary to  identify the right time for action. If one does not know when to do  what, one may make big mistakes. Our basiji youth - including boys and  girls - are active in different sectors. They are making intellectual,  scientific, political and social efforts. When efforts are made to  further a divine cause and fulfill an obligation, these efforts are  jihad in the way of God. A basiji is one who makes these efforts. When  making these efforts, it is necessary to keep the clear and appropriate  path in mind - namely, the path of the Revolution, the path of  safeguarding the Islamic Republic, the path of reviving religion. If we  want to take care of these three elements, we need to engage in a jihad  against our inner self. This kind of jihad is called "the greater  jihad". Jihad against our inner selves is what we all need today.
One of the main requirements for developing an  appropriate understanding of events is to see what path the enemy is  pursuing. Today distorting realities and different events is one of the  main paths that the enemy is pursuing, and this is among the important  elements of soft war. The propaganda efforts made by the enemy in this  regard are indicative of its weakness. Whenever the enemy faces an  overwhelming problem in the arena of realities, it steps up its  propaganda efforts. Today if one takes a look at the enemy's efforts in  the vast arena of methods of propaganda - from Internet tools to audio  visual means and to mouthpieces they have in different places inside and  outside the country - one would see that one of the main techniques is  to distort the events that happen in the country and to present the  situation of the country as disappointing and in decline. The fact that  they are making so many efforts in this arena is indicative of their  weakness in the arena of realities.
The enemy has  been making these efforts throughout the past 30 years. Of course the  efforts have increased today. The propaganda efforts have increased  because the current government officials are shouting the slogans of the  Revolution more seriously, because the path of the Imam, the path of  the Revolution and the path of rendering services for the people are  more prominent today, because our government officials are populist and  the people can feel this. Today if you take a look at the enemies'  propaganda, you will see that when they speak about economic matters,  all they want to say is that we have reached a dead end, that the  problems are insurmountable, that there are many problems and that bad  things will happen in the future. And there are some people who believe  what they say and repeat their comments inside the country. Before the  elections and the fitna that followed, some people - who had  successfully passed the test of fitna - used to come to me and say that  the year 1388 would be a difficult time in terms of economic matters.  They used to present the situation as gloomy, disappointing and  overwhelming. They wanted to disappoint government officials in one way  and the people in another. These propaganda efforts by the enemies show  that they have not been able to keep pace with the great and accelerated  movement by our people and government officials. Therefore, if one  realizes that the enemy has such a position, one will have an  appropriate and accurate view of reality. 
Similarly,  in the area of foreign policy, you noticed the same thing in some of  our newspapers or in the comments made last year by some elements of the  fitna. They used to repeatedly say, "We have been humiliated in the  world" and "The Islamic Republic has lost its honor and value in the  world" and other such things. Today when we look at the realities, we  see that the Islamic Republic's honor has been increasing among  different Muslim and non-Muslim nations in the world on a daily basis.  The enemies of the Iranian nation know, understand and feel this truth.  Of course they deny this.
For example, why should  we underestimate the President's trip to Lebanon? It was an important  event. If the same thing had happened to any other country, especially  the leaders of arrogance, they would have opened a big chapter for it in  political propaganda and analyses. Lebanon is not our neighbor, and its  people are not all Muslims. The population is a mixture of Muslims and  Christians, and the Muslim population consists of Shia and Sunni  Muslims. A nation with such diversity welcomes the President of the  Iranian nation and expresses its emotions in such a unified manner. This  is something unique. No such thing would happen to another country in  the world. Which country's president would be welcomed like that in  another country? And this is not particular to Lebanon. Today if our  prominent government officials go to Egypt and no restrictions are  imposed, the same things would happen there too. The same is true of  Sudan and all other Muslim countries. This shows the greatness of the  Iranian nation. This is an achievement that you made. The honor belongs  to you. Such a thing would not have happened if the government had been  isolated from the people and had not enjoyed the support of millions of  motivated youth. The honor belongs to you dear youth. Yet, look at the  enemy's propaganda - it shows exactly the opposite of this. Whenever  they have to speak the truth, they distort it trough their analyses. And  whenever they do not have to tell the truth, they simply deny and hide  it.
The same is true of the Basij itself. At a  certain stage, the enemy focused its global propaganda efforts on the  Basij, and these efforts are partially continued even today. They said  whatever they could. They bombarded the Basij with negative propaganda  in order to ruin its reputation in the eyes of the people, but they  failed. "And Allah will show the truth to be the truth by His words."  [The Holy Quran, 10: 82] Allah the Exalted will not let this obvious  truth stay hidden. Therefore, the Basij has acquired increasing honor in  our country on a daily basis. Across the country, the youth who are  active in different sectors consider the Basij as a great and brilliant  identity and as the symbol of determination. You dear basijis should  strengthen this. You should try to strengthen this by keeping the three  elements - insight, sincerity and timely and proportional action - in  mind. It is necessary to avoid extremism. Going to extremes is harmful,  no matter what the direction is. You should be careful. Revolutionary  enthusiasm should not be diminished at all. Revolutionary motivation  should be increased in our hearts on a daily basis. These different  mountains of problems that oppressed people across the world are faced  with will not be eliminated unless through the willpower and firm  determination of believers. The goal is not just to improve the  situation of the country. The world of Islam and even humanity is in  need of assistance from Islam and the Islamic Ummah. 
There will be many problems on your path. It is  necessary to have a firm determination. It is necessary to have  long-term plans. This firm determination should be preserved. This  revolutionary enthusiasm should be increased on a daily basis. It is  necessary to pay attention to God and rely on Him and His  representatives. The path of worship, the path of humility and the path  of thinking should always remain open to us. We should strengthen  ourselves through these things. This revolutionary enthusiasm should be  preserved, but you should take care not to use it in the wrong way, and  this requires careful thinking, awareness and insight. 
There is no doubt that the future of the Iranian nation  and the Islamic Ummah is far better than its present conditions. For  example, notice how much progress the Iranian nation has made in all  political, scientific and social areas over the past 30 years - that is  to say, since the beginning of the Revolution. You should know that our  future progress will be even more than the amount of progress we have  made so far. Our nation will make progress on a daily basis. The  movement of the Iranian nation in all arenas is unstoppable. By Allah's  favor, our nation will move on an appropriate path and on the straight  path of divine, Islamic and Quranic guidance. There are bright prospects  for the Iranian nation. And this will affect the world of Islam and the  Islamic Ummah. By Allah's favor, Muslim nations will become more  vigilant on a daily basis.
I hope Allah the  Exalted will hasten the re-appearance of the Imam of the Age (may our  souls be sacrificed for his sake). I hope He will place us among his  supporters both during his absence and after his re-appearance. I hope  Allah the Exalted will make the holy heart of the Imam of the Age  satisfied with us. Dear God, make all Iranian people, especially our  dear basijis, benefit from the prayers of that Imam. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings.
