
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Address to Clergy in Qom"/>
All  praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings  upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem Al-Mustafa Muhammad, and upon  his immaculate and infallible household, especially the one remaining  with Allah on earth. Greetings be upon you Fatima Masoumeh, the daughter  of Musa ibn Ja'far, and the best greetings be upon your immaculate,  pure and infallible ancestors.
The presence of the  honorable instructors, luminaries, scholars and seminarians of Qom  Seminary has made this meeting great. The coincidence of this great  meeting with the auspicious birthday anniversary of Imam Ali ibn Musa  ar-Ridha (a.s.) and his honorable sister, Hazrat Fatima Masoumeh (s.a.),  reminds me of their great and significant movement and migration. Their  movement was undoubtedly a constructive and significant event in the  history of Iran and Shia Islam. 
There is no doubt  that Hazrat Fatima Masoumeh (s.a.) played an indisputably important  role in helping Qom become Qom. She played an undeniable role in helping  this historical and religious city gain prominence. Through her journey  among the companions and friends of the infallible Imams (a.s.) and by  traveling through different cities and sowing the seeds of knowledge and  Vilayat during her journey, especially after arriving in Qom, this  honorable lady, this young girl who had been educated by the Holy  Prophet's (s.w.a.) household, caused Qom to shine as the main stronghold  of the teachings of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household during that  dark reign of oppressors. She made this city a stronghold for  transferring the light of knowledge and the teachings of the Holy  Prophet's (s.w.a.) household to the east and west of the world of Islam.  
Even today the city of Qom is the center of  knowledge in the world of Islam. Just like those days, today Qom is an  active heart that can and should spread knowledge, insight, vigilance  and awareness into the veins of the entire Islamic Ummah. During those  days the first books on fiqh, Shia teachings and the teachings of the  followers of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household were written in Qom.  The essential books - which Islamic jurisprudents, scholars and hadith  experts of the city of Qom could rely on - were produced in Qom  Seminary. The book "Nawadir al-Hikmah" by Mohammad ibn Ahmad ibn  Mohammad ibn Isa and tens and hundreds of other books were first  produced in this center of knowledge. Many figures were educated in this  place, figures who spread knowledge through their lectures whenever  they travelled to different parts of the world of Islam. When Sheikh  Saduq - who was among the third and fourth generations of this great  movement - travelled to Baghdad, Muslim scholars, ulama and luminaries  gathered at his minbar and benefited from his lectures. Baghdad was the  center of hadith and Shia Islam at that time. We can say that Sheikh  Saduq was a teacher of Sheikh Mufid. Qom became a center (for Islamic  scholarship).  
Today Qom is still a center. For  many years, tens of thousands of enthusiastic people have studied the  teachings of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household, acquired knowledge,  tackled numerous problems and moved forward despite these problems  keeping lofty and spiritual goals in mind. There are few or no other  cities in the world in which such a large number of people - men and  women - are after acquiring religious knowledge, religious  understanding, spirituality and communal transcendence. Maybe there are  few or no other cities in the world in which such a large number of  people make efforts and engage in spiritual, scientific and cultural  struggle day and night. This is the situation of Qom Seminary today, and  it enjoys such a prominent position in the world. As for its historical  background, Qom was the place where the first important center for Shia  Islam was established, and luminaries such as Sheikh Kuleyni and Sheikh  Saduq were among the people who benefitted from this spring of  knowledge - people whose works preserved the teachings of the Holy  Prophet's (s.w.a.) household over many centuries.
Islamic  seminaries - especially Qom Seminary - have never received as much  attention from global public opinion as they do today. They have never  been as significant in global policies as they are today. Perhaps they  have never played a more important role in the destiny of the world than  they currently do. Qom Seminary has never had so many friends and  enemies as it does today. The members of Qom Seminary have more friends  today than they ever did. Your enemies are also more in number and more  dangerous. Today Qom Seminary - which is the best among all Islamic  seminaries - enjoys such a sensitive position. 
In  this regard there is a common fallacy which I should discuss. Some  people may say if Islamic seminaries had not entered global issues,  political issues and challenging issues, they would not have made so  many enemies - they would have been respected more than they are today.  This is a fallacy. No valuable group or organization has ever received  public respect because of isolation, lack of involvement and adopting  neutral positions. And such groups and organizations will not receive  public respect in the future either. Respect for indifferent  organizations and societies - which avoid being involved in challenging  issues - is superficial respect. In a deeper and more profound sense,  this superficial respect is indeed disrespect. It is like respect for  objects, and this kind of respect is not considered genuine respect. It  is like respect for pictures and icons. It is not considered respect.  Sometimes this kind of respect is insulting. It is accompanied by  humiliation on the part of the person who pretends to have respect.  Somebody who is responsive, active and significant inspires respect -  both in the hearts of his friends and in the hearts of his enemies. His  enemies show hostility, but they also respect him at the same time.
First  of all, sidelining Qom Seminary or any other Islamic seminary will lead  to their elimination. Lack of involvement in social and political  movements and challenging issues will cause Islamic seminaries to be  sidelined, isolated and forgotten. Therefore, except for certain  individuals and eras, generally Shia clergy have always been present in  different events. This is why Shia clergy enjoy a deep-rooted and  significant position in society, a position which is unique among all  clergy in the world - including both Muslim and non-Muslim clergy.
Second,  if the clergy had been sidelined and isolated, religion would have been  harmed. The clergy are the soldiers and servants of religion. They do  not have any honor if they are separated from religion. If the clergy  had decided not to get involved in essential issues - one prominent  example of which is the great Islamic Revolution - and to remain  indifferent, undoubtedly religion would have been harmed. And the goal  of the clergy is to safeguard religion.
Third, if  being present on the scene provokes hostilities, these hostilities will  ultimately be beneficial. It is such hostilities that motivate people  and create opportunities for them. Whenever the clergy or religion were  exposed to hostilities and spite, a constructive movement was carried  out by vigilant and aware people as a response. Once I said in a meeting  that a single book by a prejudiced anti-Shia author led to the  production of several great Shia sources. For example, in the city of  Qom if the book "Asrar-e Hezar Saleh" [Thousand-Year-Old Secrets] -  which is a combination of secular thoughts and Wahhabi tendencies - had  not been published by a misguided person, our magnanimous Imam would not  have decided to stop teaching and write the book "Kashful Asrar". This  book contains the earliest ideas about the importance of Islamic rule  and Vilayat-e Faqih. The re-introduction of this important Shia and  Fiqhi thought is tangible in the book written by our magnanimous Imam.  If it had not been for the leftist and Marxist tendencies and the Tudeh  Party in the 1320s and early 1330s, a timeless book like "Osul-e  Falsafeh va Ravesheh Realism" [Principles of Philosophy and Method of  Realism] would not have been produced. Therefore, these hostilities have  not really harmed us. Whenever there were hostilities, our aware and  vigilant Islamic seminaries gave rise to an opportunity through their  response. Hostilities can give rise to opportunities when we are  vigilant and responsive.
During the rule of Reza  Shah, the hostile move against the clergy caused a marja taqlid like the  late Sayyid Abul Hassan Isfahani to issue the permission to spend  religious financial contributions on publishing religious periodicals  and magazines. This was something unprecedented, and it was strange even  at that time. As a result, religious financial contributions - which  belong to the Imam of the Age - were used to publish a religious  periodical. Using these sources of money, religious societies were  established. That is to say, in spite of what some people believed or  believe, a religious figure like Sayyid Isfahani was thinking of the  cultural issues of our country and Shia Islam, and he considered  spending religious financial contributions on such things as  permissible. These hostilities are opportunities. Hostilities give rise  to such great opportunities.
Fourth, even if the  clergy adopt a neutral position on essential issues, this will not cause  the enemies of the clergy and religion to remain silent and adopt a  neutral position. "When you fall asleep, the enemy will not fall  asleep." If Shia clergy do not feel responsible in the face of the  hostilities they confront, if they do not step into the arena, if they  do not utilize their capacities and if they fail to fulfill the  responsibility that lies on their shoulders, this will not cause the  enemy to put an end to its hostilities. On the contrary, whenever the  enemies felt we were weak, they took action to harm us. Whenever they  felt we were passive, they increased their activities and took action.  Westerners have long realized - from the events in Iraq and from the  tobacco fatwa - the great potential of Shia thought to confront global  oppression and global arrogance. Therefore, they will never keep silent.  They will continue their transgression. Therefore, active involvement  of Islamic seminaries and their avoidance of neutrality in the face of  global events and national and international challenges are a necessity  that cannot be ignored. 
After the victory of the  Islamic Revolution two wrong and misleading concepts were promoted by  those who were opposed to both the clergy and the Revolution. Of course  both verbal and practical responses have been presented in response to  these two concepts. But it is necessary to be vigilant all the time.
These  two wrong concepts were in fact two slanders that had been utilized by  the enemy as two tactics. One of the concepts was to put forward the  issue of clerical government. They say that Iran is ruled by a clerical  government. They repeatedly wrote and spoke to promote this. The other  concept was the issue of ruling clergy - dividing the clergy into  government-linked clergy and those clergy that are not. The first goal  that they were pursuing by these two wrong and misleading concepts was  to deprive the Islamic system of the great intellectual, theoretical and  logical support of religious scholars, and the second goal was to  isolate and defame the responsible and revolutionary clergy who are  present on the scene and are the target of the enmities. They wanted to  promote the idea that there are two kinds of clergy: Those who are in  the government and those who are not. They wanted to say that the former  group of clergy are bad and anti-values and that the latter group of  clergy are good and pure.  
The relationship  between the clergy and the Islamic system is something clear. The  relationship between the clergy or Islamic seminaries and the Islamic  system is a relationship based on support and advice. I will explain  this point. The relationship is limited to support accompanied by advice  - support accompanied by reform. The two wrong concepts are truly  misleading and hostile. This is because first, describing the Islamic  Republic as a clerical government is a lie. The Islamic Republic is the  rule of values. It is the rule of Islam. It is the rule of sharia. It is  the rule of fiqh, not the rule of individual clerics. Being a member of  the clergy is not enough to rule. The nature of the Islamic Republic is  different from the clerical governments that used to rule in certain  parts of the world - and there are such governments in the modern world  as well. The Islamic Republic is the rule of religious values. A cleric  may have certain qualifications that make him superior to many other  clerics. Such a cleric would have an advantage over other clerics, but  just because somebody is a cleric does not make his rivals unqualified.  Being a cleric is not a sufficient condition for being considered as  qualified, just as it is not grounds enough for rejecting people as  unqualified. The Islamic Republic is the rule of religion, not the rule  of a particular group of people. 
Dividing the  clergy into those who in the government and those who are not - and  presenting them as values and anti-values - is a fundamental mistake. If  going after government or anything else is driven by material motives,  it is something bad. If it is driven by human passions, it is something  bad. This is not just limited to government. If we are driven by our  human passions and personal interests, any goal that we seek will be an  anti-value. This is an instance of being submerged in the material  world. "Religious authorities are trustees of the Messenger as long as  they are not affected by material tendencies." This is not particular to  going after government. If the goal is material, it is unacceptable, no  matter if it is government or something else. But if going after  government is driven by divine and spiritual motives, it is one of the  best examples of counseling people to do good and advising them against  evil. It is one of the best examples of selfless efforts in the way of  God. It is an instance of accepting heavy responsibilities or supporting  qualified people who have accepted responsibilities. If governmental  clergy are those who support the Islamic system or its officials for the  sake of God and with the purpose of carrying out their religious  obligations, this is a value, not an anti-value. On the contrary,  withholding this support is an anti-value. Therefore, none of these two  concepts are right - neither clerical government, nor government-linked  clergy. These two fallacies were promoted after the victory of the  Islamic Revolution and the establishment of the Islamic Republic. These  concepts do not belong to the culture of this Revolution. 
In  contrast, there are two right concepts which are values and give rise  to values. One concept is that the Islamic system is intellectually  dependent on Islamic seminaries, religious scholars and their scholarly  efforts. The Islamic system is dependent on Islamic seminaries. It is  dependent on religious scholars and intellectuals. Another right concept  is that Islamic seminaries and the clergy are not indifferent to the  Islamic system. No cleric, no religious scholar, no servant of Islam can  be indifferent to the system that has been established on the basis of  Islam - a system whose movement and function has been driven by Islamic  motives. They cannot consider themselves as alien to such a system. This  is another truth.
The fact that the Islamic  system depends on Islamic seminaries is because in an Islamic system all  political and large-scale managerial theory-building is carried out by  religious scholars - those who are experts on religion and can present  the view of Islam in economic matters, managerial matters, war, peace,  educational issues and various other things. If religious scholars fail  to present religious theories, western, non-religious and material  theories will fill the gap for theories. No system can manage in a  vacuum. A managerial system, an economic system or a political system  that is the product of material thinking will fill this vacuum. This  happened whenever the existence of these gaps were felt.
This  is why I warned both our universities and our government officials  about the humanities and the danger posed by these inherently poisoned  sciences. The humanities, as commonly taught today, have certain  contents which are by their nature opposed to the Islamic movement and  the Islamic system. They are based on a different worldview. They are  saying something else. They are after a different set of goals. When  these theories become dominant, managers are educated according to them.  These managers take control of our universities, our economy, our  domestic and international policies, our security matters and different  other things. Islamic seminaries and religious scholars have a duty to  extract Islamic theories from divine texts. They have a duty to identify  these theories and present them to be used for the purpose of planning  and preparing the ground in different areas. Therefore, the Islamic  system depends on religious scholars, leading ulama and Islamic  theories, so the Islamic system has a responsibility to support Islamic  seminaries. This is because Islamic seminaries are what the Islamic  system depends upon.
Apart from the fact the  Islamic system needs Islamic seminaries in order to manage the country,  today certain doubts are created which are targeted at the Islamic  system. Religious, political, ideological and intellectual doubts are  infused into our society - especially our young population - and the  only purpose is to change the way people think. The purpose is to  destroy the sources of public support for the Islamic system and distort  the main principles of the Islamic system in people's minds. The  enmities are targeted at the Islamic system. Resolving these doubts and  cleansing people's minds of this confusion - which is done by religious  scholars - is another source of support for the Islamic system.  Therefore, in different aspects, the Islamic system depends on ulama,  religious theoreticians and researchers and scholars of Islamic  seminaries.
On the other hand, Islamic seminaries  cannot afford to remain indifferent. Islamic seminaries, especially Qom  Seminary, are the mother of this Islamic system. They gave birth to this  Revolution and this great movement. How can a mother neglect and be  indifferent to her child? How can a mother fail to defend her child when  necessary? It is impossible. Therefore, the relationship between  Islamic seminaries and the Islamic Republic is based on mutual support.  The Islamic system supports Islamic seminaries, and Islamic seminaries  support the Islamic system. They cooperate and assist each other. 
There  is a point in this regard that I would like to discuss. Then I will  discuss a few important issues related to Islamic seminaries. The point  that I would like to discuss now is the independence of Islamic  seminaries. Is it possible that the support of the Islamic system for  Islamic seminaries may work against the independence of our Islamic  seminaries? Is this permissible or not? These are important questions.  First of all, Islamic seminaries have been independent throughout  history - not only during the time of the governments that were opposed  to Shia Islam, but during the rule of Shia governments as well. That is  to say, when the Safavid dynasty was ruling Iran and great religious  scholars such as Mohaqeq Kurki and the father of Sheikh Bahai came to  Iran and were appointed to various religious positions, these religious  scholars and their students were never controlled by Safavid policies.  It is true that they used to help and cooperate with the Safavid  dynasty. They also used to praise the Safavids. But the Safavids did not  control them. The situation did not change during some eras of the  Qajar rule. The great religious scholar, Kashiful Ghita, travelled to  Iran and wrote the book "Kashiful Ghita". In this book, he highly  praises Fath Ali Shah both in the introduction and in the section about  jihad - where he discusses Iran-Russia wars. But Kashiful Ghita was not  the kind of person who would give in to Fath Ali Shah or people like  him. He was independent. Mirza Qomi was praised by the king of his time  in his own home in Qom, but he did not give in to his demands. They  demanded that Mirza issue whatever fatwa they wanted, but Mirza refused  to do so. Mirza Qomi wrote a treatise called "Resale-ye Abbasiyyeh" in  which he expressed his view about jihad. This treatise was published a  few years ago for the first time. He was asked to give permission that  some people engage in jihad - I think this has been mentioned in "Jame'  ash-Shattat" as well - but he refused. Shia clergy have always been like  this. They have always been independent. They have never given in to  the power of governments. The same is true of today. This state of  affairs should not change in the future either and, by Allah's favor, it  will not.
But you should guard against another  fallacy in this regard. Independence of Islamic seminaries should not be  interpreted to mean the Islamic system and Islamic seminaries should  not support each other. This is exactly what some people want. Some  people want to put an end to the relationship between the Islamic system  and Islamic seminaries under the pretext of independence for Islamic  seminaries. This is not right. Dependence is not the same as support.  Dependence is different from cooperation. The Islamic system owes  Islamic seminaries. It should help Islamic seminaries. Of course,  according to the common and significant tradition, seminarians'  livelihood should be provided by the people. It is the people who should  provide their livelihood through religious financial contributions.  This is what I believe. 
The more you think about  the depth of this old tradition which has been common among our  seminarians for more than 100-150 years, the more important and  significant you think it is. This is the secret behind the firm  relationship between Islamic seminaries and the people, which makes them  feel like relatives. The people do not expect too much of the clergy,  but they feel committed to provide financial support for Islamic  seminaries and the clergy. And this is the right thing to do.
But  the issues of Islamic seminaries are not limited to the livelihood of  seminarians. There are certain expenses in Islamic seminaries that  cannot be met unless through public and governmental support.  Governments are responsible to cover these expenses, and they should not  interfere in the affairs of Islamic seminaries. Many of the important  schools in different cities were built by emirs, sultans and prominent  figures. In Mashhad, there are three schools next to each other -  Navvab, Baqeriyyeh and Hajj Hassan - and all three were built during the  time of a Safavid sultan. All these three schools were built by the  order of that Safavid sultan or his commanders. There is nothing wrong  with this. Baqeriyyeh was built by them, the school where Mohaqeq  Sabzvari - Mollah Mohammad Baqir Sabzvari, the author of "Zakhireh" and  "Kefayeh" - used to teach. There is nothing wrong with this. Governments  must cover such expenses, and they should not interfere in the affairs  of Islamic seminaries. Islamic seminaries accept different kinds of  support from the Islamic system, and they do so with dignity. The  Islamic system has a duty to offer the kinds of support that it  currently does, and this support should be increased. Support for  Islamic seminaries is not limited to material support. Thankfully, today  our esteemed marja taqlids and the scholars of Islamic seminaries have  the most important public podium at their disposal. These are a kind of  support offered by the Islamic system. The Islamic system has a duty to  offer this kind of support, and this is due to the bond that I mentioned  before. Therefore, the issue of independence and interference should  not be confused with the existing truths in this regard. 
The  truth of the situation is that these two great movements - that is to  say, the movement by the Islamic system and the movement by Islamic  seminaries - are related and linked to one another. The fate of these  two movements is intertwined. Everybody should know this. Today the fate  of the clergy and the fate of Islam are dependent on the fate of the  Islamic system. If the Islamic system is harmed in the slightest way,  the clergy and religious scholars will be harmed more than any other  group of people. Of course the Islamic system is alive. It is standing  firm. It is strong. And I am sure that it will overcome all the  challenges that lie on its path.
The other  important issue which has to be discussed clearly is the issue of change  in Islamic seminaries. The issue of transforming Islamic seminaries,  especially Qom Seminary, has been being discussed for several years.  What does this transformation mean? What is it that Islamic seminaries  want to do in this regard? If we consider transformation as changing the  main orientations of Islamic seminaries - like changing the method of  Islamic jurisprudence - this is definitely a diversion. It is a kind of  transformation, but it is headed towards decline. The method of Islamic  jurisprudence, which is commonly practiced in Islamic seminaries and  which religious scholars rely on, is one of the most logical methods of  jurisprudence. It is based on certainty and knowledge. It is based on  revelations. That is to say, it is almost free of doubts. Our reasoning  is scholarly and based on certainty. And the particular doubts that  exist should be based on certain and unquestionable reasoning. Even the  validity of the scholarly principles that we use in fiqh should be  unquestionable. As long as we do not have unquestionable evidence  regarding the validity of these scholarly principles, we cannot use  them. Therefore, directly or indirectly, all our methods of reasoning in  fiqh lead to certainty.
In Shia Islam, Islamic  jurisprudence does not mean relying on doubts that lack credibility.  This is why our scholars wrote books and divided Islamic jurisprudence  into different categories. Ismail ibn Abu Sahl Nobakhti, Sayyid Morteza  in "Zorriyah", Sheikh Tusi in "Iddat ul-Usul" and others rejected  jurisprudence that is based on unreasonable doubts. This kind of  jurisprudence has no place in Shia Islam. And today anybody who turns to  such jurisprudence will be rejected, no matter what his pretext is. It  is not acceptable to argue - implicitly or explicitly - that the world  does not like a particular kind of jurisprudence. Unfortunately it has  been noticed in certain cases that the methods of extracting Islamic  ahkaam have been changed in order to comply with the norms of the modern  world - mostly the norms of the materialistic world. Even worse,  sometimes in order to win the favor of materialistic powers and to  comply with their norms, fatwas have been issued saying that the Islamic  Republic's peaceful nuclear activities are prohibited because they  arouse the suspicion of the superpowers. Who are they to suspect us?
Islamic  jurisprudence is very good only if it is practiced in the right way by  relying on the Holy Quran and Sunnah and by following the right, logical  and well-thought-out method of jurisprudence. Different kinds of  Islamic jurisprudence will lead to progress even if they produce  different results. Throughout the history of fiqh, our religious  authorities have expressed different views regarding different issues.  The students of our religious scholars have presented arguments against  their teachers. There is nothing wrong with. This can bring about  progress. This kind of Islamic jurisprudence should be promoted in our  Islamic seminaries. Jurisprudence is not limited to fiqh. Jurisprudence  is necessary in rational sciences, in philosophy and logic. In the  absence of Islamic jurisprudence, we will be like stagnant water. 
Today  our Islamic seminaries should not be absent from different  philosophical, fiqhi and logical areas in the world. So many questions  have been raised in the world regarding different issues. What is the  response of our Islamic seminaries? Our Islamic seminaries should  neither be absent from international debates, nor should they remain  passive: both of these things are harmful. It is necessary to present  new ideas. It is necessary to address the flood of new needs which are  being voiced throughout the world. You should fulfill these needs. Your  response should be focused on these needs and on the responses presented  by different schools of thought and different denominations. Your  response will not be as effective as you want it to be if you are  ignorant of other responses. You should present firm, logical and  convincing arguments. You should make your responses international. It  is necessary to constantly export the intellectual products of Qom. As I  said, Qom is the intellectual center of the world of Islam. Fortunately  means of instant commutation are available to everybody today. You can  say something here and have people on the other side of the planet  listen to and benefit from your comments.
Today  there are different needs in different areas. The Islamic Republic has  its own needs. The country and the world have certain other needs.  Islamic epistemology, political and economic ideas of Islam, fiqhi and  legal concepts which form the basis of economic and political ideas of  Islam, the educational system, moral and spiritual concepts and many  other things should be prepared and presented in an accurate, scientific  and convincing way with a focus on the ideas prevalent in the world.  This is the duty of our Islamic seminaries. It is possible to do these  things through Islamic jurisprudence. If we do not do these things, we  will simply help eliminate religion from the scene of human life and we  will help isolate the clergy. 
This is what change  means. This movement in Islamic jurisprudence, which is focused on  particular needs, is the basis of change. I will speak about other  areas, and I will distinguish between what constitutes change and what  does not. I will distinguish between positive and negative change. I  have always said that change is inevitable. It happens. Different  institutions are not confined by walls. There are no boundaries to  change. We have two options: we can either manage change, or we can  stand by and watch. We will lose if we just stand by and watch. The  luminaries of our Islamic seminaries, our marja taqlids, our  intellectuals and our religious scholars should roll up their sleeves  and try to manage change. Therefore, in essence change means moving  forward on the basis of the particular instances that come up.
It  is necessary to avoid interpreting change in the wrong way. Change does  not mean that we should abandon the efficient traditional methods of  instruction used in our Islamic seminaries. Change does not mean that we  should replace these methods with the methods of instruction that are  common in the academic world. Such change is absolutely wrong: it is  retrogression.
Today the world is becoming  familiar with our traditional methods. Driven by imitation or  innovation, there are some people in the world who are promoting our  traditional methods. We do not want the kind of change that would lead  to imposing academic methods of instruction - which are based on old  western methods - on our Islamic seminaries. Such change would  definitely be an instance of retrogression. We do not believe in such  change. We have been using very good methods of instruction in our  Islamic seminaries for a long time. Students of Islamic seminaries are  free to choose their teachers. When a student enters a seminary, he  starts looking for an appropriate teacher and attends his classes.  Seminary work is based on thinking, reflection and studying, not  memorization. Memorization is the problem which has been plaguing our  modern system of education, and we have been fighting it for a long  time, but the problem is still there. It is necessary to address this  problem. In Islamic seminaries everything is traditionally based on  thinking. A seminarian prepares himself before attending a class. He  prepares his mind by studying before the class so that he can learn new  things from his teacher. After the class, he reviews the lesson with a  classmate. In this way seminarians can acquire deep knowledge. In some  Islamic seminaries, such as Najaf Seminary, it was common for the  students to practice the lesson after the class. The students used to  present the same lesson to the students who needed help. At that time,  this method was not so common in Qom Seminary. Notice how much this  practice would help students learn what they have been taught. These  traditions are too good to be abandoned.
Respect  for one's teacher is another issue. In Islamic seminaries students have  been traditionally humble and respectful to their teachers. Beginning  seminarians are taught what their rights and responsibilities are.  Seminary instructors do not just present the lesson and leave. This is  not the case. They listen to their students. These things have been  common since old times. The students of some of our prominent figures  accompany them home after the class. They discuss and debate things and  ask questions at the instructor's home. These are good traditions that  have been preserved in our Islamic seminaries. It is not right to  replace these methods of instruction with obsolete methods of the people  who have decided to practice our methods. Therefore, it is necessary to  preserve and strengthen these traditions. Change does not mean that we  should transform these things.
One of the  requirements for positive change is that we should adjust ourselves and  our scientific activities according to the needs. There are certain  things that our people need, and they demand them from us. We must  fulfill these needs. There are certain other things which have already  been provided, and our people do not really need them. We must not keep  ourselves busy with those things. These are extremely important points.
I  demand that our universities adjust their activities according to the  needs of our society. I repeatedly demand this from our university  professors and students whenever I meet them. I ask them to adjust their  fields according to the needs of our country. The same is true of our  Islamic seminaries.
The next issue is the behavior  of Islamic seminaries. If any change is supposed to be made, it should  be in this direction. I have written down a few topics in this regard  that I would like to discuss. One is respect for seminary teachers. Our  behavior in Islamic seminaries should move in this direction: respect  for seminary teachers, respect for scholarly individuals and in  particular respect for marja taqlids. It is not easy to become a marja  taqlid, and not everybody can reach this level. You need to have a lot  of qualifications to become a marja taqlid. Marja taqlids are usually  considered the peaks of knowledge in Islamic seminaries. Therefore, it  is necessary to respect them. 
The need to benefit  from spirituality and self-purification is the next issue regarding the  behavior of Islamic seminaries. This is a very important point. Today  our young seminarians need self-purification more than ever before.  Those who study general behaviorology confirm this. Today in every part  of the world, materialism and the materialistic system has made youth  impatient and depressed. In such a situation, attention to spirituality  and ethics is what can help youth. This is why you see false schools of  mysticism developing everywhere and attracting supporters. This is  because there is a need for spirituality. Our male and female  seminarians need self-purification. There are certain people who have  reached the peaks of self-purification. The late Haj Mirza Javad Aqa  Maleki, the late Allamah Tabatabai, the late Ayatollah Bahjat and the  late Ayatollah Bahaeddini were the peaks of self-purification in Qom  Seminary. Becoming familiar with the lifestyle, behavior and ideas of  these scholars is one of the most effective ways to bring about  spiritual calm and enlightenment. There were other figures in Najaf  Seminary who were also prominent in this regard. The students of the  late Mullah Hussein Qoli, the late Aqa Qadhi and others were among these  figures. I do not want to speak about their schools of thought and  mysticism because intellectual matters are not the focus here. Some of  these prominent figures followed different schools of thought. For  example, the late Sayyid Morteza Kashmiri was the teacher of the late  Haj Mirza Ali Aqa Qadhi, but they followed completely different schools  of thought. One of them used to seriously advise against a certain book,  while the other loved that book. This does not contradict the fact that  they were both prominent figures. The luminaries who used to live in  Mashhad were famous for piety and purity. The same is true of the late  Haj Mirza Javad Aqa Tehrani, the late Haj Sheikh Mojtaba and people like  them. What is important is that the heart should be purified through  spirituality. Therefore, schools of mysticism are not the focus of my  comments. 
Another issue regarding the behavior of  Islamic seminaries is the issue of revolutionary tendencies and  sentiments in our Islamic seminaries. My dear ones, the revolutionary  atmosphere of the country has spiteful enemies. They are opposed to  spreading the revolutionary atmosphere across the country. They want to  undermine this general revolutionary atmosphere. At a certain stage, you  saw that they questioned martyrdom. They questioned jihad. They  questioned martyrs. They questioned the ideas of the Imam (r.a.). They  questioned the divine prophets. The problem is not that a certain person  is opposed to these concepts. The problem is that the enemy believes  this opposition should be become public and the revolutionary atmosphere  should be undermined. Everybody should pay attention to this point in  our Islamic seminaries. The same is true of our society. They know that a  cleric is not just one person. They know that a cleric can influence  his audience. They are trying to undermine the revolutionary atmosphere.  They are trying to isolate revolutionary clerics. It would be a  disaster if our basijis and martyrs were humiliated in Islamic  seminaries and if martyrdom and the long-lasting jihad of our people  were questioned. The luminaries of our Islamic seminaries should prevent  such things in a vigilant manner.
Now I would  like to address a point to the enthusiastic and revolutionary youth  studying at our Islamic seminaries. Enthusiastic and revolutionary youth  make up a large portion of our seminary students. Dear youth, the  future belongs to you. You are the hope of the future of the country.  You should be extremely vigilant. The revolutionary youth studying at  our Islamic seminaries are down-to-earth and active, but they should  also be vigilant. The revolutionary movement must not be such that  allegations of extremism can be leveled against it. Our revolutionary  youth should know that it is necessary to avoid going to extremes. Just  as passiveness and indifference is harmful, so extremism is also  detrimental. You should take care not to engage in extremism. I have  received reports that certain luminaries and marja taqlids have been  insulted in our Islamic seminaries. If these reports are accurate, you  should know that a deviation has taken place. The revolutionary spirit  does not sanction such things. A revolutionary person should have  insight. He should be perceptive. He should be able to understand the  complexities of time. Rejecting a certain person and accepting another  person is not a simple issue. You should be careful. You should preserve  the revolutionary enthusiasm. You should deal with the problems. When  somebody raises an objection, you should not turn your back on him.  However, you should be careful as well and avoid immature actions. You  should not lose hope. You should stay on the scene. But take care not to  get angry at an action which you think is objectionable. Take care not  to lose your temper in such cases. It is necessary to behave in a  logical and reasonable way. Of course I would like to advise everybody  against accusing our revolutionary forces of extremism. Some people have  a tendency to level allegations of extremism against revolutionary  elements, revolutionary youth, revolutionary seminarians, revolutionary  ulama and revolutionary teachers. This is another kind of deviation  which has been caused by the enemy. This is obvious. Therefore, it is  necessary to avoid extremism.
All these points are  related to the issue of change. Now I would like to ask you a question.  Is it possible to introduce widespread change without centralized  management? I mentioned this point several years ago in this Islamic  seminary in a meeting with seminarians, and they accepted that  widespread change is not possible without centralized management. Some  of those seminarians have become marja taqlids, and some others have  passed away. Centralized management of Islamic seminaries by a group of  religious experts - who are sanctioned by our marja taqlids and  luminaries - is necessary and inevitable. We cannot go without this  central management. It is not possible to undertake this complex,  important and comprehensive task without competent management.
I  would like to mention two other points and finish my speech. The  meeting is becoming too long. I apologize to the brothers and sisters  who are sitting close to one another in this mosque. I also apologize to  the brothers and sisters who are listening to my speech outside this  mosque. 
One point is related to the issue of  philosophy as a lesson and as a field. Pay attention to this point. The  importance and the impressiveness of fiqh should not make us ignore the  importance of philosophy as a lesson and as a field of study. Philosophy  and fiqh are responsible for certain things. Fiqh has a mission to  fulfill, and philosophy also has a great mission to fulfill. The flag of  Islamic philosophy has been in the hands of Islamic seminaries, and it  should remain in their hands. If you put this flag down, others will  pick it up - others who may not have the necessary qualifications.  Teaching philosophy and the field of philosophy will fall into the hands  of certain individuals who may not have the necessary qualifications.  Today if our government and our people are deprived of philosophy, they  will be defenseless against different doubts that are raised and against  the philosophies that have been imported from abroad. Often fiqh cannot  provide you with the answers you need. It is rational sciences which  can provide such answers: philosophy and logic. These fields are  necessary. These fields are very important in Islamic seminaries. Tafsir  [exegesis] is another important field - close familiarity with the Holy  Quran. We should not deprive ourselves from exegesis. Tafsir is an  important field, just as philosophy is. These fields are very valuable.
The  last point is related to female students of Islamic seminaries. The  fact that our Islamic seminaries admit female students is an auspicious  and great event. Thousands of religious scholars, researchers, religious  authorities and philosophers are being educated in women's Islamic  seminaries, and this is a great movement. The materialistic world has a  very negative, humiliating and twisted attitude towards women. The  presence of women scholars - who have been trained in Islamic seminaries  and universities - in different scholarly areas will have great effects  on the world. This presence is a source of pride for the Revolution.  Ladies should study hard. Of course the ultimate goal is not to become a  religious authority or a philosopher. Some ladies may have the  interest, talent and time to achieve this goal, others may not. It is  familiarity with Islamic and Quranic teachings which can prove useful to  female seminarians and other people.
Dear God,  make what we said and heard serve Your cause. Dear God, bestow Your  blessings on the great movement that has started in Islamic seminaries.  Dear God, make our actions, words and movement satisfactory and  noticeable to the Imam of the Age (a.s.). Make the holy heart of the  Imam of the Age (a.s.) satisfied with us. Bestow Your mercy and  blessings on our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) and our dear martyrs who opened  up this path in front of us.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
