
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Speech to Young Elites"/>
I  would like to express my gratitude to the dear brothers and sisters -  both the ones who arranged this excellent meeting and the ones who  expressed and discussed their views. The meeting was an excellent  meeting. I really enjoyed being in your company and listening to your  comments. I also benefited a lot from this meeting. 
Our  friends mentioned a few points in their speech. I am not saying that  the issues they raised are trivial or insignificant. After all, any  issue or problem is important for the person who is dealing with it.  There is no doubt in this regard. I do not at all want to complain about  why some of our friends stand up and say these things. No, this is not  at all the case. Even if everybody had stood up and raised a point, I  would have been happy to listen. However, the priorities have to be  observed. This meeting is for discussing large-scale issues. If we  manage to use such meetings to create an atmosphere, a thought or a  public mood in the country, these problems will be gradually resolved.  And I hope this will happen. 
Regarding the plans  for the development of the country, the essential issue is to see on  what areas we should focus our material and spiritual investments. This  is because it is obvious that material assets as well as spiritual  assets - namely, manpower and motivation - are not unlimited. If we want  to help our country achieve development - the kind of development that  is favorable to us and not necessarily what is commonly understood of  the term "development" in the west - we should see on what areas we  should focus our investments.
I firmly believe  that investing on science, technology and education of elites is one of  the highest priorities. Scientific progress followed by technological  progress will provide the country and the nation with the opportunity to  achieve material and spiritual power. Therefore, from a strategic point  of view, science enjoys such importance. This is why I stressed the  importance of science. What is the purpose behind this science? If there  is time and I do not forget, I will briefly explain at the end of this  meeting what the orientation of our scientific movement should be.
Therefore,  one of the highest priorities is science and technology, which are  necessary in the country. We have been suffering from a chronic  historical backwardness in these areas, and it is the fault of those who  imposed this chronic malady on our great nation through their policies,  behavior, greed and negligence. And now we are determined to get rid of  this heavy millstone. Therefore, me, you, government officials in  charge of different sectors of the country and every honorable person  who has the capability to help should make efforts in this regard.  Everybody should try as much as they can. Everybody is responsible in  this regard - from a student who has just entered university, to  students who study at higher levels, to professors, to the officials in  charge of the educational system of the country, to different sectors,  to people involved in different bureaucratic and scientific hierarchies  of the country. Everybody should make efforts. Everybody should work  hard. All of us should make accelerated efforts so that we can  compensate for the historical backwardness that has been imposed on us.  This is a serious issue. 
The speed and success on  this path have been tangible over the past several years. You should  know - and maybe you already know - that over the past 7-8 years the  country has launched a great movement in this area and outstanding  achievements have been accomplished. Of course I have detailed  statistical information in this regard. There are some people who create  despair and pessimism in different parts of the country - inside and  outside our universities. But their claims are based on nothing. They  are lying. Some of these people are just suffering from lack of  vigilance, and the situation of some others is beyond lack of vigilance.  The movement has been successful indeed. Great achievements have been  made during these years. Our nation, our youth, our scientific  organizations, our universities and those in charge of our scientific  affairs have shown that there are good capacities to complete the  movement I have in mind. Therefore, we have made progress.
This  progress requires that we move forward with more hope. A considerable  number of Iranian and non-Iranian experts believe that our country will  achieve the goals specified in the 20-Year Strategic Plan before the  year 1404 - which is supposed to be the last year of the plan. This  means that by then we will be first among Islamic countries in terms of  science. This is what the estimates show. This is because of our  accelerated movement. Therefore, we should be hopeful and not waste the  time we have. We should rely on our own power and continue our movement  in a serious and friendly manner, keeping the necessary requirements in  mind. This is one point I wanted to make. 
The  second point is that everybody who lives in our country and is aware of  the scientific endeavors in the country feels proud. We all feel proud  of our scientific progress in nuclear technology. We all feel proud of  the extremely important advances and great achievements that we have  made in the area of stem cells. We have made good advances in such areas  as nanotechnology and biotechnology, and we all feel proud. These  things are not trivial. They are great achievements. But these advances  are not enough to assure us that the country has achieved a favorable  and perfect level of scientific progress. In spite of the fact that it  is not a long time since we have entered some of these areas, we are  currently considered among the top ten countries in the world to have  achieved these technologies and this level of knowledge. But this is not  enough.
What are the requirements? The existence  of a unified scientific network is what we need in the country,  something which can make us feel proud by showing how much the  scientific position of the country has improved. There is a need in all  sectors to create an interconnected network of different kinds of  knowledge that the country needs so that these different kinds of  knowledge can add to one another. It is necessary to create a complete  scientific network in the country. This has not been done so far.  Different scientific areas - which are like islands - should be  connected to one another in order to form a unified network. Then  different areas can contribute to one another, help one another move  forward, add to one another and prepare the way for seeking new  scientific areas in the vast world of creation. They can pose new  questions and provide answers to those questions. These are all  necessary.
We have had a lot of fragmented  investments. We have also achieved a lot of fragmented advances which  depended on the efforts of particular individuals or groups. These  advances should be extended to all sectors and all areas. A wide-ranging  and never-ending movement should be launched in different scientific  areas. This phenomenon should be spread to humanities, experimental  sciences and different kinds of sciences. This requires efforts. I  referred to this issue as "scientific jihad" in a meeting with a group  of scholars and academics - which I think was held in the month of  Ramadan. There is a need for selfless efforts. 
If  we want these selfless efforts to be complete, we need to pay special  attention to universities. This is because universities are the  environments in which talents are cultivated and prominent figures are  educated. Both the National Elites Foundation and the managers and  presidents of our universities are responsible in this regard. The focus  of the National Elites Foundation on elites should not prevent it from  paying attention to our academics. That is to say, the National Elites  Foundation should strengthen its relationship with universities.  Similarly, universities should identify and educate elites. Of course  graduate levels are more relevant in this regard. This is another issue  that I wanted to speak about.
How are our elites  supported? I noticed that the same point was raised by the friends who  spoke in this meeting. I think the most important kind of support that  we can provide for our elites is to prepare the ground for them to work.  Prominent minds are after work, reflective thought, production,  creation, opening up new doors and treading new paths. It is necessary  to provide "hard" facilities for these people. In some cases, both  "hard" and "soft" facilities should be provided in order to enable them  to work and make efforts. Of course these efforts should be in line with  the needs of the country. According to the report that I received, the  comprehensive scientific plan of the country has taken a major portion  of these needs into consideration. Of course I do not yet have the final  version of the report about the comprehensive scientific plan. Our  friends are pursuing the issue in a serious manner. There are various  views. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the youth who told  me in a meeting held in the month of Ramadan that they had prepared  their own comprehensive scientific plan independent of our governmental  organizations. I told them to bring their plan, and they did so. I told  them to prepare a summary for me. They prepared the summary as well and  gave it to me. Of course I sent everything to the secretariat of the  High Council of Cultural Revolution. I need to read that summary, but I  have not yet found the opportunity to do so. I approve of the  determination and aspiration that our youth enjoy. A few youth sit down  together and decide to prepare a comprehensive scientific plan for the  country according to their own perspective. Of course they do not  promise that their plan will fill the gap for a comprehensive scientific  plan because it may not be as informed as it should be. But this  boldness, this aspiration, this determination, this self-confidence is  itself very interesting and pleasant for me.  
Therefore,  it is necessary to have this complete scientific network. In addition  to this network, there is a need for a cycle - from the emergence of an  idea in the mind of an elite or genius, to presenting the idea to  scientific centers to be considered and turned into science or a  scientific field, to entering the arena of technology and having  technological and industrial experts to work on this scientific finding,  to commercializing the idea. This is another cycle. Therefore, besides  the need to create a scientific network that connects different  scientific areas to one another, there is a need to create a chain-like  cycle of generating scientific thoughts and ideas, creating a scientific  organization, entering the arena of technology and industry, and  entering the market by turning the idea into a product. Of course all  these things require your determined efforts as well as management by  governmental organizations. Everybody should cooperate in order to make  this happen in the country. 
The issue of  commercializing is very important. Scientific and industrial findings  should be used to produce wealth in the country. The officials in my  office made an estimate. They believe that by the year 1404 we should be  able to provide at least 20 percent of our national income through  knowledge-based industries and commercial knowledge-based activities -  namely, through selling scientific products. This does not seem to be  far beyond our reach. Knowledge is the source of producing wealth. Of  course this should be done in an appropriate and noble way, not the way  the western world used knowledge to acquire wealth. By Allah's favor, I  will briefly speak about this issue later on. Of course if our  governmental organizations are planning to commercialize something, they  should think about it from the very beginning - that is to say, from  the time they define scientific and industrial projects. We should not  let a project be completed before we start to think about  commercializing it. Commercializing should be included in our  calculations from the very beginning. Of course pursuing this issue is  up to our governmental organizations. 
They  suggested that the ground should be prepared in our country for  establishing a new kind of companies - namely, scientific and  technological companies. There are many people who want to do science  and research in a collaborative way. The support that our government and  government officials provide for promoting scientific and technological  advances should not be limited to helping individuals. Scientific and  technological companies should also be supported. Of course these  companies should not be confused with commercial companies which are  subject to tax regulations and can benefit from the common banking  facilities. Rather, these scientific and technological companies should  be offered special support. I think this is necessary and important. The  government should manage this issue in a clever way. 
Another  issue which is of paramount importance is the need to establish  research centers. In addition to the independent research centers that  currently exist, there should at least be one research center in every  university which engages in serious activities. Universities should pay  attention to the issue of research. Our elites should be attracted  towards research centers. Of course this does not mean that they should  move away from learning and teaching. Rather, it simply means that our  elites should go after research and do research in research centers. And  this is what our elites want. As I said before, facilities should be  provided for our elites so that they can engage in research. This is  what makes an elite feel satisfied. These facilities help him utilize  his talent and feel that the ground is prepared for him to work. They  will also counteract the temptations that it is impossible to work  inside the country, and these temptations keep increasing on a daily  basis.
Such research centers will make it possible  to utilize the experience of retired academics, in which case they will  be the link connecting the young generation of researchers with  experienced academics who have spent a long time in universities.
Different  kinds of support have been provided for our elites. Of course people  complain here and there, and I hear about their complaints. Besides what  they tell me in such meetings, they write letters and reports, and they  complain. Therefore, complaints are being made. These complaints are  legitimate, and they deserve to be addressed. There is no doubt about  this. But take a look and see where we used to be 5-6 years ago and  where we are now. 5-6 years ago no support was provided for our elites,  and they received no attention. There was no such attempt or movement. A  lot of good measures have been adopted since then. Paying attention to  our elites, bringing them together, listening to their comments and  utilizing their ideas - these things are new. We should appreciate this  and be thankful. It is not right to see the negative points only. 
One  natural characteristic of human beings is that they always want more.  Of course this characteristic is not something bad. Just like other  human characteristics and instincts, if this characteristic is steered  in the right direction, it will contribute to transcendence of man. In  spiritual areas, one should be as greedy as possible. Scientific work,  intellectual endeavors and research are spiritual matters. Therefore,  this characteristic is inherent in human beings. People always see the  shortcomings, no matter how much they have. There always a desire to  have more. It is necessary to see what has been done. A lot of things  have been done so far. 
Besides all the support  that is being offered and all the good and valuable measures adopted by  our government officials - for which they deserve appreciation - it is  necessary not to let the sweetness of this support and these good  measures be ruined in the maze of bureaucracy and other things. I would  like to highlight this point for the officials in charge of this sector.  They should try to bypass the common bureaucratic procedures and  different kinds of mazes. They should try to find shortcuts to  facilitate things.  
On the other hand, one should  not be unfair and ungrateful. In all fairness, a lot of efforts have  been made and a lot of services have been rendered. There is also the  intention to render even more services. "The intention of the believer  is better than his actions." That is to say, a believer always wants to  do more good deeds than he can. In reality, it is not possible to  everything one intends to do. Your intention to do good deeds should be  several times more than the good deeds you actually do. This is always  the case with a believer: His intention to do good deeds exceeds his  good deeds. The same is true of the governmental organizations in  charge. Their intention to adopt good measures is really more than the  good measures they actually adopt, but practical problems naturally  prevent them from doing everything they intend to do.
Another  point that should not be forgotten is that we need a system for  monitoring. We should constantly monitor the outcome of the efforts we  make for our elites. We should see to what extent the output corresponds  to the investments made. We should not make investments and get no  output. If the output is too little, it is indicative of the fact that  there is a problem with our methods - that the methods we use are wrong.  Therefore, it is necessary to constantly monitor the output. 
In  this regard, simple monitoring is not enough. We should also monitor  the countries which we are trying to overtake. It is not right to think  that other countries, neighboring countries, Islamic countries are  standing still to let us overtake them. No, they are making efforts as  well. It is necessary for us to monitor their progress too. If we are  supposed to overtake them, we need to be aware of their situation. It is  necessary to observe the other players. We should know what is being  done, and then we should evaluate our own efforts and see if they are  appropriate or not. 
I have jotted down a few  other points, but I will not discuss them in this meeting. I always  emphasize knowledge. This emphasis is serious. It is not just a formal  gesture. It is not rooted in a passing urge to conform to some  ceremonial routine. Rather, it is rooted in a deep and sophisticated  understanding. There is a lot of bullying in the world. The global  bullies are relying on their power. Their power, wealth and facilities  are the result of their knowledge. It is not possible to confront them  without knowledge. "Knowledge is authoritative power." I read this in a  narration. Knowledge is a source of power. Anybody who enjoys this  source of power can move forward. Anybody, any nation or any society  that does not have it will be forced to give in to the power of others.  Therefore, this emphasis on science is based on an accurate calculation.  
This knowledge can have two kinds of goals. One  kind of goals is what current owners of knowledge used to seek. This  kind of goals is dishonorable and unholy. Do not pay attention to their  claims. The truth behind the scientific progress of the west is  extremely bitter and pitiful, the kind of progress that one would not go  after under any circumstances. Scientific activities of the western  world - since the 16th century and also since the Industrial Revolution  in the 18th century England - happened at the cost of destroying the  freedom of many nations, threatening their identity and imposing great  oppression and brutality on them. More specifically, it was their  intellectual activities that prepared the ground for scientific  activities. The Industrial Revolution led to the establishment of huge  factories and introduction of huge machines - which took place gradually  over several decades and resulted in production of wealth. This science  and technology gradually spread to other European countries. I do not  want to speak about what happened in those places, what rights were  trampled upon, how many poor people were wiped out, the new social class  which was formed as a result of introducing these huge machines, the  kinds of oppression they imposed on people and other such things. They  felt that they had the necessary means. They felt they needed a market  to sell their products. Then the English, the Dutch, the Portuguese, the  French and some other European countries started a journey around the  world. Using science and technology as a tool, they created enough  tragedies in the world to fill a big encyclopedia with tens of volumes.  [One member of the audience shouts, "Death to America".] It was not just  America. Actually, America joined them later on. 
Just  see what they did in India and in China. In the 19th century, the  English gave rise to innumerable tragedies. I am sure that you dear  youth - who pay little attention to history and other such things - have  not even heard one thousandth of what they did during the 19th century.  Jawaharlal Nehru writes in his book that the English entered India.  According to Nehru, before the Industrial Revolution and the  introduction of huge machines, the Indian subcontinent was one of the  most industrially advanced countries in the world. In order to prepare  the ground for what they wanted to do, they destroyed India's industry.  They wiped out India's middle class. They thwarted the emergence of a  movement towards knowledge and industrial progress by creating different  kinds of obstacles for India. They infected the Indian nation with a  chronic malady. Even after the passage of about 150 years since the  start of their actions in India, this malady has not yet been cured in  that country. They did something similar in China. They gave rise to  those tragedies and exerted that pressure on the people of China. These  things date back to the 19th century. They did similar things in Africa.  They created great tragedies in the Americas through the use of  science. Many people were enslaved and many families were massacred in  Africa and Latin America. This was how they acquired their knowledge.
Therefore,  the orientation of their knowledge was towards wealth, without any  concern for ethics, faith and spirituality. Even at that time, Europeans  used to claim they were civilized, but their actions were more savage  than what the most savage tribes did during their attacks on other  tribes. These things are not slogans. There is evidence to support every  comment I made, but there is not enough time to explain now. If I  mention only part of what they did, you will realize what these  Europeans, westerners and their knowledge have caused in East Asia, in  Africa and in different other parts of the world. Because the purpose  was to gain wealth, there was no concern for ethics, religion or God. 
We  do not want this kind of knowledge. When this kind of knowledge grows  and reaches its greatest extent, it becomes what western countries  currently have. It becomes atomic bombs. It becomes oppression. It  becomes the destruction of democracy in a country that claims to be the  most democratic country in the world - namely, America. It becomes  increasing class conflicts and differences. There are millions of  homeless people and millions of people who live below the poverty line  in a wealthy and advanced country. This kind of knowledge is useless. We  are not after this kind of knowledge. Neither the teachings of divine  prophets, nor Islamic teachings, nor our human conscience encourage us  to move in this direction. It does not create any enthusiasm in us.
The  kind of knowledge that we want is accompanied by purification. The  Quranic verses that were recited at the beginning of this meeting refer  to the same point. "He it is Who raised among the inhabitants of Mecca  an Messenger from among themselves, who recites to them His  communications and purifies them, and teaches them the Book and the  Wisdom." [The Holy Quran, 62: 2] Purification is the first priority.  This is what religious, Quranic and Islamic education says. Why is  purification the first priority? This is because knowledge strays away  from the right path in the absence of purification. Knowledge is a  means. It is a tool. If this tool falls into the hands of a spiteful and  evil murderer, it will create nothing but tragedies. But the same tool  can be used by a righteous person as a means to safeguard families and  the rights of human beings. This knowledge should be utilized only when  it is accompanied by purification. This is my advice to you.
Thankfully,  Allah the Exalted has given you dear youth the opportunity to grow up  in a religious and Islamic environment. This is a very good opportunity.  It is similar to what Imam Hussein (a.s.) tells Allah the Exalted in  Dua Arafa. He tells God he is thankful for living under an Islamic  government. Of course there is a lot of difference between Imam Hussein  (a.s.) and us. The difference is enormous. This is our orientation. This  is an opportunity for us - an opportunity for you dear youth.
We  should acquire knowledge with the purpose of rendering services,  achieving spirituality, promoting human virtues and defending the rights  of human beings in a genuine manner. National wealth and power should  be acquired in order to enable this nation to break with the common  global tradition and carry the flag of justice. We should not bully  anybody. We should help the oppressed. We should stand up against  oppressors. 
Oppression, bullying, arrogance,  colonialism and exploitation of nations is extremely common in the  modern world, and anybody who starts treading the path of knowledge,  science and progress follows the same path. Some people become bullies,  and others give in to their bullying. Those who dominate and those who  accept domination constitute the system of domination. The situation of  the world will change if a nation stands up against this system of  domination - a nation that has knowledge and power, a nation that has  something to say, a nation that can make its voice heard, a nation that  enjoys advanced technologies and various means of communication, a  nation that enjoys power of propaganda, a nation that has confident men.  Whenever everybody joins hands to oppress and trample on a particular  people, this nation stands up for that oppressed people and defends it.  Notice how strange this would be in the modern world. 
Make  efforts to achieve this goal. Acquire knowledge for this purpose. Go  after this goal. This is necessary, otherwise it is not an art to follow  the same methods that have been used during the past 200-300 years by  the current owners of knowledge in the world. It is not an art to follow  in their footsteps. This is not the kind of goal for which one would be  prepared to make sacrifices. We need to open up a new path. A nation  that has knowledge and scientific authority - two factors which bring  about everything else - should raise the flag of divine motives, divine  values and divine ethics in the world. This is how a new path can be  opened up. This is what I expect from you.  
Dear God, bestow increasing guidance and assistance on our dear youth who are treading this glorious path.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
