
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Speech to Members of Assembly of Experts"/>
All  praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings  upon our Master and Prophet, Muhammad, and upon his immaculate  household, and Allah's curse be upon all their enemies.
Allah  the Exalted says in His Book: "He it is Who sent down tranquility into  the hearts of the believers that they might have more of faith added to  their faith - and Allah's are the armies of the heavens and the earth,  and Allah is Knowing, Wise - that He may cause the believing men and the  believing women to enter gardens beneath which rivers flow to abide  therein and remove from them their evil. And that is a grand achievement  with Allah and (that) He may punish the hypocritical men and the  hypocritical women, and the polytheistic men and the polytheistic women,  the entertainers of evil thoughts about Allah. On them is the evil  turn, and Allah is wroth with them and has cursed them and prepared hell  for them, and evil is the resort. And Allah's are the armies of the  heavens and the earth. And Allah is Mighty, Wise." [The Holy Quran, 48:  4-7]
First of all, I would like to thank the  esteemed gentlemen, the honorable brothers and the members of this great  organization within the Islamic Republic, who arranged this meeting and  mentioned these notable points. I would also like to express my  gratitude to the honorable Chairman and the honorable Vice-Chairman for  their statements and for presenting a brief report of the issues  involved in this meeting.   
A particular  characteristic of today's meeting is that it is close to the month of  Ramadan - the month of worship, the month of sincerity, the month of  connecting to the Source of glory and power, the month of spiritual  peace resulting from remembrance of God. "Surely by Allah's remembrance  are the hearts set at rest." [The Holy Quran, 13: 28] One of the  important benefits of this holy month for us is that the unrest, anxiety  and agitation which exist in our hearts and drag us in different  directions are alleviated and divine peace settles on our hearts. And if  Allah the Exalted bestows this blessing on somebody's heart, their  faith and love of God will increase. "That they might have more of faith  added to their faith." [The Holy Quran, 48: 4]
Fortunately  one can see that our people made the best of this month of Ramadan and  this Eid ul-Fitr. I received many well-documented reports with photos  attached to them, reports from across the country about people's  spiritual state, attention to spiritual matters, Ehya [vigil] ceremonies  and Quds Day. Thankfully our people, especially our youth, made the  best of Ramadan this year. The spiritual qualities of this month  enlightened hearts like a brilliant beam of light and showered the souls  of our people like a blessed cloud. It was good. I hope God will help  us not to fall behind in this regard and to benefit from this holy month  just like our people. 
Of course this public  attention to spiritual matters and these divine blessings - which are  observed in different forms and can also be observed in daily  conversations of the people - should not make us lose our vigilance.  These things are pleasing. Thankfully the spiritual state of the people  is satisfactory. But we should not ignore divine "plans" [the Holy  Quran, 3: 54]. We should not let down our guard. Lack of attention to  what may happen, mistakes that may occur, punishment that Allah the  Exalted may send down on a nation because of its ingratitude - these are  a great danger.  
Fortunately there have been  some eye-openers. These events and attacks and the disgraceful insult to  the Holy Quran in America - these are eye-openers. These are the  warning bells that ring to stop people from slipping into lack of  vigilance, from falling into deep sleep and letting down their guard.  This is a great blessing. We have had such events in our history and in  the history of the Revolution, and faithful, insightful and vigilant  people have benefited from them: they have benefited from the enmity of  the enemies. 
I do not remember if I read this  somewhere or not, but it was common knowledge that the book "Fajr  al-Islam" written by the Egyptian author, Ahmad Amin, contained many  insults and allegations against Shia Islam. Later on he wrote "Zuhr  al-Islam" and "Asr al-Islam" and continued his insults. After "Fajr  al-Islam" was published, it caused a number of luminaries and  intellectuals from Najaf Seminary to think of preparing a response. As a  result, Sheikh Agha Bozorg Tehrani wrote the book "Az-Zorriyyah".  Similarly, the late Sayyid Mohsen Jabal Ameli wrote his famous book  "Rijal" as well as "A'yan ash-Shia", and the late Sayyid Hassan Sadr  wrote the book "Ta'sis ash-Shia li Funun al-Islam". They defended Shia  Islam in a practical way. That is to say, the book "Fajr al-Islam",  which was no more than 200-400 pages, caused Shia scholars to prepare  several great encyclopedias. This was a warning bell. It started ringing  and awakened Shia Muslims to do what they were supposed to do.
It  has always been like this. In the beginning of the book "Mabsut" by  Sheikh Tusi, which he wrote at the end of his auspicious life, Sheikh  Tusi says, "We hear our opponents humiliate our fiqh a lot, and they say  that your fiqh does not have secondary principles or other such things.  This was why I wrote this book." This impressive book contains all  those secondary principles, and Sheikh Tusi himself wrote in the  beginning of the book that he had not seen a book in any branch of fiqh  which contained so many secondary principles. That is to say, a single  insult and sarcastic comment led to such a pleasant event.
Similarly,  at the beginning of a book titled "Rijal", which has been one of the  best and the most basic documents in Ilm ar-Rijal since a thousand  years, Sheikh Najashi writes that he had heard "the honorable Sayyid" -  apparently, he means Sayyid Morteza - saying, "Our opponents say that we  do not have a (scholarly) background." He says that his purpose in  writing the book was to show the opposite. 
Notice  how luminaries used these events. I believe this is the way one should  look at bitter events. This does not mean that desecration of the Holy  Quran is something insignificant. On the contrary, it is extremely  grave. It is really hideous. It is really disgraceful. But such events  should sound some warning bells for us and keep us vigilant. We should  stay vigilant and understand that "the enemy will not fall asleep  whenever one falls asleep." [Nahjul Balaghah, Letter 62] If we fall  asleep here, it is not clear whether the enemy has also fallen asleep in  his trench. The enemy is awake, and he will design plots against us. 
I  believe this is true of the fitna of the year 1388. It sounded a few  warning bells for us. It was an alarm. Forty million people take part in  the presidential election. All of us are happy that people have gone to  the ballot boxes and voted until late at night - of course the turnout  rate had not been announced yet, but everybody was enjoying this.  Suddenly a fitna starts from a corner. The fitna awakens us and says,  "Do not fall asleep. Do not let your guard down. There are dangers in  front of you." The fitna shows us the dangers. I believe all events  should be viewed in this way.
Let us take a look  at the global and domestic issues in this meeting and see what lessons  we can learn from these issues. Let us see what lessons we can learn  from what is currently happening in the world and in our country.
Regarding  global issues, what is clearer and more prominent than everything else  is that the opposing camp has become hyperactive. Hyperactivity is an  illness that affects children and adolescents. Hyperactivity means that  there is too much activity. Those who suffer from hyperactivity do  various things, but they are not focused and organized, and they do not  have a goal. Too much activity without a goal, which often leads to  failure: this condition is called hyperactivity. One can see this  condition in the opposing camp today. They are engaged in different  activities: sanctions, resolutions, slander, negative propaganda against  the Islamic Republic, strengthening domestic enemies. To use an  athletic term, they are doping our domestic enemies: they constantly  inject them with performance-enhancing drugs which do not have any real  effect on strengthening them.  
Last year in the  thick of the fitna, you heard that one of the social networking websites  - which was in contact with the enemies - was planning to temporarily  shut down for technical changes. The website was engaged in spreading  the news of the events happening inside the country, conveying the  orders issued outside the country, creating uproar and manipulating the  atmosphere. They wanted to shut down the website temporarily, but the US  government did not let them. The US government told them that if they  shut down the website temporarily even for technical repairs, it will  hurt Iran's domestic enemies. They prevented the website from shutting  down. That is to say, they did not let the social networking website  shut down temporarily. They supported them like this, and they still  offer various other kinds of support to our domestic enemies.
Today  they are using all means of communication, all political means, all  cultural means and all economic means in order to prevent the effect of  the sanctions from wearing off and becoming ineffective. The US  government has assigned one of its high-ranking economic and monetary  officials to this task. The duty of this agent is to guide certain  committees, travel to different parts of the world, contact heads and  leaders of different countries and constantly encourage other countries  to act against Iran. I believe this hyperactivity on the part of the  order of arrogance and the Islamic Republic's opposing camp is among the  most prominent events. 
Well, there are several  lessons to be learnt from this event. The first lesson is that the event  was caused by the increasing power of Islamic Awakening. When you see  that the opposing camp is nervous, is struggling hopelessly, is hasty,  engages in various activities and meets this and that person, it is  obvious that we have gained enough power to alarm it. If we were weak,  if we were vulnerable, if they could bring us to our knees with one  blow, they would not make all these efforts. These efforts are  indicative of the power of their enemy. And this is the truth of the  situation, and I will speak about it later on.
Our  side has grown more powerful than it was three decades ago. We have  become more experienced. We have gained further awareness. We have more  freedom of action. On the other hand, the enemy has grown weaker. One  day the entire world of arrogance was against Iran. That is to say,  there was no respite. The situation was like this during the first  decade of the Revolution. The U.S.S.R was not just a country. It was a  power that consisted of an impressive number of countries, and the  center was in today's Russia. East Europe belonged to them. The majority  of African and Latin American countries were with them, and many  countries held them in high regard in Asia. They were against the  Islamic Republic. At that time we had nobody to turn to for ordinary  weapons. That is to say, there was no country in the world that would  sell us conventional military facilities like tanks. During my  presidency, I made a trip to Yugoslavia. Judging by appearances, they  received me warmly and were respectful to me. They also praised me. But  in spite of all my insistence, they did not agree to provide us with  conventional weapons. Yugoslavia was an independent country - it was  neither part of the west nor part of the Eastern Bloc. But even  Yugoslavia refused to provide weapons for us, let alone other countries.
The  other side was the west. There was America. There was Europe. Even  modern France - which broadcasts negative propaganda against us and  speaks against us - used to provide the enemy with "Mirage" [fighter  jets] and "Super Etendard" to use against us. At that time the attacks  that these countries used to launch against us were far more serious  than they are today. For example, today the Germans - their Chancellor  or other people - only make a few negative comments in their propaganda.  But at that time they used to provide Saddam Hussein with chemical  weapons. They used to build chemical facilities for Saddam Hussein.  Those days their enmity was more operational and active.  
Today  there are no such things. They cannot do these things. This does not  mean that they have grown nobler and better today. It is just that the  ground is not prepared for them to do what they used to do. They see  that they cannot do anything. The Islamic Republic has grown more  significant and more powerful today. And the important point is that  today the west feels that its old hegemony over the world of Islam is  undermined. That is to say, the same people who were free to do whatever  they wanted in Islamic and Arab countries have realized that it is not  possible for them to do what they used to do. This wave of Islamic  Awakening has forced them into this position. They even find it  difficult to revise their old ways. In some countries - which are  clearly dependent on the west and their people are aware of this and are  discounted because of this - they want to revise some of their ways in  the hope that they may be able to set things right. But they cannot do  so. This is a dead end for them. Today the west is stuck in such a  situation. This is the natural result of their weakness: they resort to  such things and issuing resolutions - resolutions that have not won over  the hearts of peoples or even governments. The governments some of  which are members of the Security Council and put their signatures to  these resolutions - we know for a fact that even some of these  governments are reluctant to put their signatures to these resolutions.  They are just forced to do what they do. They are stuck in a situation  in which they have to stand on political ceremony. 
Therefore,  the events that have happened to us during this time - events like  Resolution 1929, desecration of the Holy Quran, explicitly hostile  comments against the Islamic Republic and events of the year 1388 in  which the arrogant enemies were clearly and undoubtedly involved - are  all because the opposing camp feels that our side has grown more  powerful. The power and strength that our side has gained frightens the  opposing camp. This is evidenced by their statements, and they say that  if they fail to take action, Iran will become the most powerful country  in the Middle East. They say that if they fail to take action, Iran's  influence in the Middle East will increase. These are what they say.  This is the first point.
The second point is that  these events should keep us vigilant. We should not let down our guard.  We should not fall asleep. If these events and the increasing power and  strength of the Islamic camp and the camp of the Islamic Republic  eliminate all our concerns, lull us into a false sense of security and  make us arrogant, then they will become a danger. We should consider  them as warning bells. What should we do? We should reform our inner  self. Constant reforming of our inner self is one of our  responsibilities. How should we reform our inner self? We should start  with ourselves. For example, I should start from myself, and others  should do the same. First, we should reform our relationship with Allah  the Exalted. We should think about what Allah the Exalted will ask us.  "And make me do what You will ask about tomorrow." [Al-Sahifa  al-Sajjadiyya, dua 20] This is one of the things that we should always  keep in mind. I am not saying that we should start improving other  people only when we have finished improving our inner self. Improving  our inner self may not be so easy. When we start reforming our inner  self, then it will be easy to reform our society. Reforming society is  easier than reforming one's inner self. In our great Iranian community  we can see that there are hearts which are prepared for logical  reasoning. Our youth and our faithful men and women living in different  parts of the country - from highly educated people to the lower classes  of our society - are clearly prepared for logical reasons. If we talk to  them, they will listen. And if they listen, our reasoning will have an  effect on them and this effect will be manifested in their behavior.  Reforming our inner self is one issue. 
One of the  important issues is to boost the morale of our people. If my speech  does not take too long, I will discuss this issue later on. This is one  of our responsibilities. Raising the morale of our people is one of our  main responsibilities, both as government officials and as clerics. This  is among the responsibilities that we should never forget. 
Genuine  unity is the next issue. The gentlemen are all speaking about unity. We  all do. We all speak about unity, but we should show unity in action.  Unity means that we should strengthen and highlight our similarities  more than our differences. Just because we are annoyed at somebody  should not make us do or say something that goes against the interests  of our country. This is what we see happening sometimes. We get annoyed  at somebody because of a certain thing he has done or said, and then  this feeling overshadows all our behavior. This is not the right thing  to do. It is necessary to consider what we have in common. It is  necessary to identify the primary issues. Some of the issues that we  raise and emphasize are not really the main issues. There are more  important issues that should be emphasized. You see what the enemy has  targeted. I will discuss this point later on. 
Identifying  the enemy, its methods and its actions are the third point. What is the  enemy doing? I would say two of the most important things that the  enemy is doing is to separate the people from the government and to  separate the people from obvious religious principles, Islamic teachings  and Islamic sharia. These are two of the things that they are doing,  and they have identified the right course of action. This is because the  people are the source of support for the Islamic system. They know that  if they separate the people from the Islamic system, the government  will have no source of support. Therefore, they try to separate the  people from the Islamic system. How? By undermining the trust of the  people. They do what is obvious: they simply undermine public trust.  They make the people lose trust in their government officials. No matter  how hard our government officials work, no matter how active they are,  no matter how many good measures they take, foreign radio stations and  propaganda machines will always present a negative interpretation. And  if one listens to those radio stations, one will clearly see that this  is the case. Of course this has always been the case. Separating the  people from their government officials and undermining their trust in  the officials and managers of the country has always been one of the  things that the enemy has done. This has always been one of their  techniques, both during the time when the Imam (r.a.) was alive and  after he passed away. This was why our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) would  always support government officials at that time in spite of the fact  that he was opposed to some of their actions. This support did not mean  that the Imam was in favor of everything they did. But he used to  support them. On the other hand, when a government official created  problems and undermined public trust in government officials, the Imam  would firmly voice his objection.  
I act in the  same way. I have always defended all administrations so far, and I will  do so in the future as well. It is not right to undermine public trust  in our government officials - including the officials of the executive  branch, the legislative branch and the judiciary branch - because of a  certain action taken in a corner of the country. This is because if the  people feel that they cannot trust their government, they will lose  their hope. They should think about this point. Such a thing would not  be fair. That is to say, some of the comments that are made go against  the truth. I see the situation, and I am thoroughly familiar with it.  Many efforts are being made - pious and sincere efforts. One can see  these things. The advances that are made in our country could not have  been achieved if our officials had sat around idly and rested in their  homes. Such advances could have been achieved only through the efforts  of the government officials. Efforts are being made. Genuine efforts are  being made. The enemy wants to put an end to this state of affairs. The  enemy wants to undermine public trust in government officials so that  they feel their government cannot be trusted, so that they feel their  judiciary and parliament cannot be trusted. They want to tarnish the  public image of our governmental organizations. This is one of the  things that the enemy does, and it is necessary to understand this  point. It is not right to play into the hands of the enemy. It is not  right to solve the enemy's puzzle. It is not right to reflect the  enemy's voice inside the country. It is necessary to be vigilant in this  regard. 
Another issue is the issue of religion  and obvious Islamic and revolutionary facts. Doubts are being created  all the time about a range of things - from monotheism, prophethood,  Imamate and Vilayat, to ahkam [Islamic rules extracted from religious  texts through Islamic jurisprudence], hijab, rules of sharia and other  things. We have to pay attention to the fact that these are the methods  utilized by the enemy. It is necessary to be wise and active. Of course  regarding the doubts that are raised in different ways, everybody has a  duty to stand up against these anti-religion efforts that can be noticed  on the websites and in certain statements. Everybody has a duty to  stand up against the efforts that are made to create sects and to break  ethical and moral norms. This does not mean that the enemy is doing all  these things from outside our borders. No, there are some people with  the right motives inside the country, but the enemy strengthens these  motives. It channels these motives. The enemy is happy about these  things. We have to be careful in this regard. We should be vigilant. Who  should shoulder this responsibility? Is it the government that should  shoulder the responsibility? No, not the government alone. Of course  there are always certain responsibilities that the government should  shoulder. I have repeatedly told the High Council of Cultural Revolution  during different terms that they cannot afford to ignore their  responsibility to promote piety among the people. The immoral movements  were opposed to this. They said, "No, this would be government-imposed  religion." I believe that the government has certain responsibilities in  this regard. But what are these responsibilities? Is the government  responsible for rectifying the beliefs of the people? No, the government  should only prepare the ground. It is the clergy and the elites of  universities and seminaries who are responsible for carrying out this  responsibility. Today I see many places which are in need of the  presence of this religious and scientific community.   
When  I raise an objection to the organizations in charge of promoting  religion in the country, I sometimes see that they are spurred to make a  move to promote religion. But their move proves ineffective. This is  because of the lack of scholarly knowledge that only the clergy enjoy.  
The  role of our Islamic seminaries in the IRIB is not limited to having an  eloquent cleric preach for the people on TV or on the radio. No, our  Islamic seminaries should establish committees and religious think tanks  to write about, discuss, analyze and research different issues. And our  Islamic seminaries should publish the outcome of their work. When the  general atmosphere is rectified, it will naturally have its effects. It  will even affect the way actors play their roles. 
About  200-300 prominent artists of the country arranged a meeting with me. I  think it was last year. They made some comments. I spoke too. I made a  point in that meeting. I said that film makers, artists, actors or  directors may tell me that they are going to produce a religious film  and ask me what the subject should be. For example, they may tell me  that they are going to produce a film on hijab and ask me what the  content should be, where they should start and what they should tell the  people. They may tell me that they are going to strengthen public faith  in monotheism, prophethood, Vilayat, Vilayat-e Faqih or the Imam of the  Age (a.s.) and ask me what the subject and the content should be. There  may be people among the artists who have been raised in non-religious  environments and have never studied religion - many of them may not have  good knowledge of the Holy Quran, Nahjul Balaghah and hadith. How would  such people know what the content of religious films should be? But we  know these things, and we should prepare the way and help them. An  artist from a religious background may produce a good film, but such  cases are rare. If we manage to organize these ideas, make them  understandable and plausible and present them as well-organized sets of  materials, then they will affect the artist who reads them. Therefore,  this is our responsibility. It is the duty of the clergy to make up for  the shortcomings in this regard. 
I would like to  make a few comments about our situation. I would like to briefly discuss  the situation of the Islamic Republic inside and outside the country. I  believe we have been attacked many times during the three glorious  decades since the establishment of the Islamic Republic. We have been  the target of transformative attacks - spiteful attacks against our  Islamic identity and our Islamic and revolutionary spirit. We have been  the target of many attacks during the past 30 years. They distorted our  slogans. They changed our slogans. They frequently presented wrong  interpretations of our slogans. They made many efforts - organized  efforts, not isolated efforts - in order to make the people doubt the  essence of the Revolution. In the past - not so distant past - they  broke the law repeatedly. Time after time, they presented pretexts for  their illegal actions. Different things were done. But the people and  the Revolution stood firm. The Revolution stood firm. The people stood  firm. The faithful government officials, who had an active presence in  this great system, stood firm. They clarified issues. Thankfully the  Revolution moved forward, and they could not do anything. You saw in our  recent election that the people did not pay attention to the comments  that had non-Islamic and non-religious content. These are very important  points. The people chose those who adopted revolutionary and Islamic  slogans - those who adopted slogans against extravagant lifestyles and  slogans in support of social justice. This is indicative of the  vigilance of the people. These are what the people like. The people  respect us because they love Islam. They respect us because we represent  and explain Islam to them.
This is the  characteristic of our people. This is very important. They have been  working against our Revolution for 32 years, yet the people are standing  firm and the revolutionary slogans are still alive. The words of our  Imam have gained a lot of ground today. Those who want to attract the  attention of the people repeat what the Imam used to say. They support  their claims with the words of the Imam. One day the situation was  completely different. There was a day in the near past when some people  used to pretend they were opposed to the Imam. They went to him and said  that the Revolution had been buried. They said this explicitly. Some  people said that the people should be separated from God. They used to  say these things explicitly at that time. Today they do not dare say  such things. Today those who publicly address the people claim to  support the Imam, the Revolution and the Imam's slogans. This is very  important. This shows that the path of the Imam and the Revolution is  the acceptable path in the country. 
As I said,  the people have stood firm, and the fitna of the year 1388 was the  latest example. The people stood firm. Even those who had voted for  someone other than the President stood up against them. As a result, you  saw that everybody attended the demonstrations on the 9th of Dey and  the 22nd of Bahman. Everybody came. This shows that the seditionists are  limited in number. But they lied and tried to encourage the people to  follow them. They were successful in the beginning, but when their masks  were removed as a result of certain statements and actions, the people  turned their back on them. Therefore, the people stood firm. Well, this  is an important point regarding the situation of the country.  
Another  point is the progress of the country. Our scientific advances have been  discussed repeatedly, and you know what they are. To be fair, amazing  advances have been made in scientific and technological areas. Some of  the things that are mentioned in passing on TV would look very important  if one considered the efforts that went into them. It takes a lot of  effort and knowledge to produce or invent certain things in different  industrial, technological and scientific areas. This is an indisputable  fact, but I believe what is more important is the spirit of  self-confidence which has been revived among our people. This spirit has  been revived among those who should engage in production and  innovation.
For me, this was one blessing of the  meetings that I arranged in the month of Ramadan. There were students in  those meetings. There were university professors. There were scholars  and elites. There were government officials. There were industrialists.  There were people from different sectors. And nobody told them what to  say in the meetings. They were just invited to say what they wanted to  say. The comments that they made were indicative of their spirit of  self-confidence. They were confident that they could work several times  harder than they did. This is a very important point. This is the same  spirit that the Imam (r.a.) wanted to revive among us. This spirit has  been revived among the people today. The youth come and speak to me. A  youth said that he had prepared a comprehensive scientific plan and that  he will give the plan to me. He said that the plan which has been  prepared by the High Council of Cultural Revolution is problematic. This  spirit of self-confidence is great. I was really delighted. What he has  prepared may not be as acceptable as he thinks, but what is important  is that a young student decides to prepare a comprehensive scientific  plan for the country with the help of a few other students and announces  in public that he will give the plan to me. Such spirits exist both  among our students and youth and among our good and faithful professors.  These are important points.
We should not just  see the bitter realities. We should not just see the failures. We should  not just see the weaknesses. We should see the positive things too.  They are very important, and they determine the direction of our  movement. Was there a time when we had no bad people among us? Was there  a time when we had no lawbreakers among us? Was there a time when we  did not have any weak individuals among us? Was there a time when we did  not have any nagging people among us? Was there a time when we did not  have any opponents among us? The situation has always been like this,  but what pushes the country forward is the engine I spoke about, the  driving force. A few people may fight on this train or may litter up the  train. But the train keeps moving forward. Such disagreements do not  matter. Some people may be doing bad things on the train. Others may be  performing the Ja'far-e Tayyar prayer. There may be many different  people on the train, but the important point is that the train is moving  forward in a certain direction. Efforts are being made. There is  development. There is innovation. There is the spirit of  self-sufficiency. One can see these things today. Important achievements  have already been made, which I believe are valuable achievements. As  far as I know, very good things are being done in the country.
I  discussed what I know about the situation of the country with the  esteemed brothers and gentlemen. I am aware of the situation of the  country. I know about all the different issues which are commonly  discussed. I have detailed information about many of the issues. The  image that I have of the situation of the country leads to a few  conclusions. 
One conclusion is that the enemy's  pressure and the harsh conditions have not made us weak. The hardships  of the past 30 years have not made us weak. On the contrary, they have  made us strong. The Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) said, "But you must  remember that hardy trees which grow on the border of deserts have very  strong timber, and trees which are found in marshy lands have thin bark  and soft wood. Similarly when the former are lit up they burn longer  and with a very strong glow and give out more heat than the latter."  [Nahjul Balaghah, Letter 45] This is the characteristic of harsh  conditions. Harsh and challenging conditions make nations firm. They  make the heads, managers, officials and leaders of countries strong.  They have the same effect as physical exercise. They make them strong.  They strengthen their determination. They encourage them to go after  greater achievements. Thankfully this has already happened. This is the  first conclusion. 
The second conclusion is that  the pressures which are being exerted throughout the world are doomed to  failure. Apart from the divine promise of assistance - "Surely Allah  will help him who helps His cause" [The Holy Quran, 22: 40] - this is  what experience has shown us. There many Quranic verses in this regard.  Pressure is often doomed to failure. They exert pressure for a while,  but when they see that their pressure is faced with resistance, they end  it. It is a war of wills, a war in which those with stronger wills win  out. Therefore, they will be defeated. If the Islamic system was  supposed to give in to these pressures, it should have been defeated in  the first decade of the Revolution. As I said, the enemy used to be  stronger at that time. We used to be weaker. We used to enjoy fewer  capabilities and facilities. Our knowledge of the world and our  experience used to be less than today. Thankfully the shortcomings that  we used to suffer from are eliminated today. Many of the problems that  existed at that time do not exist any longer. The morale of the people  is high. Today the people are highly motivated. If, God forbid, a war  takes place and necessitates the presence of the people at the war  fronts, you will see that our youth - who are the third generation of  the Revolution - are not less selfless and less determined than the  youth of that time. They may even be more selfless and more determined.  The situation is like this. Therefore, these pressures are doomed to  failure. But the important point is that we should remain vigilant.  These pressures are doomed to failure, providing that we do not fall  asleep, providing that we do not let down our guard, providing that the  warning bells keep us awake. These are the prerequisites.
The  third conclusion is that giving the people hope and confidence is a key  factor, and this is a duty that lies on the shoulders of you and I -  the clergy, the government officials and the esteemed Friday prayer  leaders. You should consider it your duty to give the people hope and  confidence. If the people lose their hope and confidence, failure is  inevitable. Hope is what keeps a soldier on the battlefield. In order to  fight, a soldier must have hope and know that he can achieve victory.  It is necessary to keep this hope alive. The presence of the people on  the scene is the main cause of victory, and the presence of the people  on the scene depends on their hope and confidence. It is necessary to  boost this hope among the people. The people must not be alarmed. They  must not be made suspicious. "Those to whom the people said: Surely men  have gathered against you, so fear them." [The Holy Quran, 3: 173] This  is what the enemy says: "Surely men have gathered against you, so fear  them." Spreading fear has been attributed to the enemy in the Holy  Quran. Another Quranic verse says, "It is only Satan that causes you to  fear from his friends." [The Holy Quran, 3: 175] "If the hypocrites and  those in whose hearts is a disease and the agitators in the city do not  desist, We shall most certainly urge you on against them." [The Holy  Quran, 33: 60] That is to say, spreading fear among the people has been  criticized in the Holy Quran. Undermining the hope and confidence of the  people has been criticized in the Holy Quran. On the other hand, God  says, "I swear by time. Most surely man is in loss, except those who  believe and do good deeds, and exhort one another to truth and exhort  one another to endurance." [The Holy Quran, 103: 1-3] We should urge  each other to exercise patience and to follow the truth. We should  support each other. "And (as for) the believing men and the believing  women, they are guardians of each other." [The Holy Quran, 9: 71] It is  our duty to protect each other. Therefore, it is necessary to pay  attention to the issue of hope and confidence.   
It  is necessary to identify primary issues and not confuse secondary  issues with primary issues. This does not mean that secondary issues  should not be put forward. No, secondary issues should be discussed as  well. They should be discussed in detail, but they should not be passed  off as primary issues and should not be the criterion for support and  opposition. The criterion for support and opposition is the righteous  path. The criterion is Islam, sharia, piety, adherence to revolutionary  principles and commitment to the Imam's wishes and goals. The criterion  is confronting and suspecting the arrogant powers. That is to say, we  should know who the enemy is. For example, we should not oppose a  brother who is sitting in this room and at the same time sympathize with  the shameless arrogant power, ask it for help and trust it. This should  not be the case. 
The issue of culture is  something has always been on my mind. As was pointed out in this  meeting, the issue of culture is a serious concern for other people as  well. It is an important issue. It is even more important than economic  and political issues. What is culture? Culture is the understanding,  interpretation and beliefs of people and their mentality and  characteristics in life. Culture is what spurs people into action. For  example, if the dominant culture in a country values sense of  responsibility, it guides actions of the people of that country. On the  other hand, being indifferent to events, issues, the future and one's  friends and enemies shows [culture-based] lack of responsibility. Sense  of responsibility and instilling this sense in the minds, hearts and  souls of the people strengthen culture. Self-sacrifice,  conscientiousness, discipline, social cooperation, civil coexistence,  avoidance of extravagance, reforming the norms of consumption, the  spirit of self-restraint - these are some elements of our culture. It is  necessary to strengthen these elements among the people. Other elements  of our culture include good deeds, keeping alive the ideas of the Imam  and the Revolution, the spirit of Islamic solidarity with our Muslim  brothers and fellow countrymen and mutual support for each other, which  is the case throughout the vast world of Islam. Of course the culture of  morality and simple lifestyle are other cultural norms of our society. 
Who  is responsible for these things? The media have an important role in  this regard. But the media only provide the form: we are responsible for  the content. This requires a detailed discussion, which is not  appropriate in this meeting. By Allah's favor, I will speak about this  issue at an appropriate time. We and our Islamic seminaries are  responsible for important things. And by Allah's favor, we will do those  things. 
I hope Allah the Exalted will keep us  all on the path of the Revolution and the path of Islam. I hope God will  help us devote our lives to Islam and will make our death serve His  cause and the cause of Islam. I hope He will make our words and actions  serve His cause. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
