
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Address to Government Officials and Ambassadors of Islamic Countries"/>
I wish to congratulate you dear audience, government officials, honorable ambassadors of Islamic countries, Iranian people and the Islamic Ummah on this great and auspicious Eid. I hope the repentance and supplication of the faithful Iranian nation during the month of Ramadan will cause divine grace, mercy, support and guidance to be bestowed on the great people of Iran.
Worship, praying and congregational prayers show that this auspicious Eid is an occasion for celebration. In the entire world of Islam, the people lined up in a unified manner to perform their congressional prayers and show their humility before God. This is a spiritual bond in the Islamic Ummah. In the same way, the Islamic Ummah should form a unified front to deal with the important issues of the world many of which are related to the Islamic Ummah and its fate. 
If these Muslim hearts are united and if the discord caused by the enemies of Islam and the Islamic Ummah is resolved, then Muslim efforts, capabilities and thoughts will be in the same direction and will effectively deal with the big camp that is opposed to Islam and the Islamic Ummah. 
It is a fact that today there is a camp that is opposed to Islam and Muslims. It slipped out of their mouth, and they used the term "crusade" a few years ago. This means the entire Islamic Ummah is faced with a threat. It is a mistake to think that the enemies of Islam and Muslims are opposed to a certain portion of the world of Islam and support another portion of it. This is not the case. They are opposed to the Islamic Ummah in general. This is because the essence of Islam requires resistance against bullying and hegemonic powers. They are opposed to Islam. They have deployed their forces against Islam. We have a duty to resist. The entire world of Islam has a responsibility to resist. 
Fortunately we notice today that many nations have realized certain realities that were not really clear to them in the past decades. Today the issue of Palestine is an issue that is alive in the world of Islam. This was not what the enemies of Palestine wanted. They wanted to isolate this issue. They wanted to make people forget the existence of a country called Palestine. They wanted to wipe Palestine off the map of the world. Fortunately Muslim nations are pursuing this issue with awareness and vigilance today. Some governments are cooperating, and others fail to do so. But peoples are pursuing the issue of Palestine unanimously, and there is no doubt their efforts will produce the desired results. The same is true of different issues of the world of Islam.
This is a great lesson that Eid ul-Fitr holds for us - the unified front formed by Muslim brothers in all Islamic countries. Everybody should move in this direction. All of us should work in this direction. By Allah's favor, these efforts will be continued. And the day Muslim nations enter into global issues in a unified fashion, the problems that plague the world of Islam will be resolved in favor of Muslim nations - unlike the current situation in which different disagreements in the world of Islam prevent this from happening. However, by Allah's favor, we will get closer to unity of the Islamic Ummah on a daily basis. 
Fortunately our dear nation is a role model in this regard - it is an example. Our people are vigilant. Our people are united. Our nation is pursuing global issues in a caring and enthusiastic manner. Our nation is actively involved in the issues of the world of Islam and adopts clear positions on these issues. An example of this was manifested in the great Quds Day rallies across the country - in all towns and cities and even in some villages. The people took to the streets and shouted slogans in support of their Muslim brothers whom they have never even seen. But they consider their problems as their own. This is due to religious faith and Islamic Awakening. This is the path that our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) opened up in front of us. We will continue this path, and the threats, opposition, hostilities and spiteful acts that one can see in different parts of the big opposing camp will not be able to prevent this nation from treading its path. 
I hope Allah the Exalted will bestow more mercy and blessings on you dear people. I hope God will bestow His grace on all of you. I hope Allah the Exalted will open up the doors of His grace on the Islamic Ummah on a daily basis.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
