
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Government Officials on the Occasion of Mab'ath"/>
The following is the full text of the speech delivered on July 10, 2010 by Ayatollah Khamenei, the Leader of the Islamic Revolution, in a meeting with government officials. The meeting was held on the occasion of Mab'ath.
In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful
I would like to congratulate all of you dear brothers and sisters, the officials of the country and the dear guests - ambassadors of Islamic countries who are present in this meeting - on this great Eid. I would like to extend my congratulations to the great, religious and pure people of Iran, to all Muslims and to all liberated people throughout the world.
Mab'ath is the greatest historical and eternal memory because it created a very sensitive era in human history and it presented a special path to humanity. If humanity moves forward on this path, all its natural demands and historical and natural desires will be satisfied.
Throughout history, humanity has always complained about lack of justice. That is to say, justice is the greatest demand of all human beings throughout history. If someone carries the flag of justice today, they have - in fact - satisfied a historical, permanent and natural desire of human beings. Primarily, the rules of Islam, the movement of Islam and the be'that of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) are based on justice. Justice was at the top of the agenda for the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), as was the case for all other prophets.
Other important, great and fundamental demands of human beings are peace, security and tranquility. People need peace of mind, tranquility and a secure environment for living, nurturing talents and making practical progress. They need this in their hearts and souls, in their family environment, in society and in international environments. Tranquility, security, health and peace are among the fundamental demands of human beings.
Islam carries the message of security, peace and health. When we say - according to the Holy Quran and Quranic teachings - that Islam is the religion of human nature [fitra], we mean this. The path that Islam presents to humanity is the path of human nature, one that satisfies the natural needs of human beings. God of the world entrusted be'that to the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) with such comprehensibility, precision and care. He promised humanity's happiness to him: "Surely We have sent you with the truth as a bearer of good news and as a warner" [The Holy Quran, 2: 119]. Primarily, this good news is about living a peaceful life in which justice exists. Besides, this lifestyle is based on people's natural make up.
Of course, this good news is followed by another which is divine reward in the afterlife. Therefore, the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) be'that is the be'that of mercy. With this be'that, divine mercy was bestowed on God's servants and this path was opened up for people. Be'that brought justice, security and health to the fore: "There has come to you light and a clear Book from Allah. With it Allah guides him who will follow His pleasure into the ways of safety and brings them out of utter darkness into light by His will" [The Holy Quran, 5: 15-16].
With these commands and teachings, the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) showed the path of health and security to people. These Islamic paths - that is to say, the paths of safety, calm and security - exist in all environments which are important for human beings such as one's heart and soul, society, family, workplace and social and global environments. This is what Islam is after.
From an Islamic point of view, the goal of enmities is opposition to these basic guidelines which are valuable for human life. Those who are opposed to justice, those who are opposed to peace, security and tranquility and those who are opposed to purity and the spirit of human warmth and transcendence are against the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) invitation. It is for the sake of justice that Allah the Exalted has described jihad as an obligation. And this is not particular to Islam. Jihad has existed in all divine religions.
Those people who are opposed to the tranquility and transcendence of society and those who are enemies of humanity's interests are against this invitation. This is the point which Islam aims at. From the beginning of the be'that of the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.), he established clear guidelines on the basis of the ayahs which were sent down to him through divine revelation.
In the blessed Sura al-Alaq whose first ayahs are apparently the first ayahs sent down to the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) - the other ayahs in this sura were sent down to him over time - God says:
"Let him beware. If he desist not, We will drag him by the forelock, 
a lying, sinful forelock. 
Then, let him call for help to his council of comrades. 
We too will call on the angels of punishment to deal with him" [The Holy Quran, 96: 15-18].
Those who stand up against the invitation to mercy, dignity, tranquility and security are threatened in the first sura [revealed] of the Holy Quran.
Another example is Sura al-Muddathir which is also one of the first suras which were sent down to the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). In this sura, there is an in-depth discussion about those elements which disrupt people's lives:
"Leave Me alone, with the creature whom I created alone. 
To whom I granted resources in abundance, And sons to be by his side. 
To whom I made life smooth and comfortable.
Yet is he greedy that I should add yet more. 
By no means! For to Our Signs he has been disobedient.
Soon I will make a distressing punishment overtake him" [The Holy Quran, 74: 11-17].
In these ayahs, it is pointed out that those who are opposed to the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), to humanity's best interests and to the path of truth will face this great divine opposition. Therefore, jihad exists in Islam. But this jihad is against those who are opposed to people's tranquility, justice and happiness. When you look at the Holy Quran and the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) Sunnah, you will see that since the day Islamic government was established, there were certain non-Muslims who lived a secure and peaceful life in the shade of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.).
The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) reached an agreement with the Jews who lived in Madina so that they could live a peaceful life in the shade of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). However, they conspired against him and they opposed and betrayed him. They stabbed him in the back. Therefore, the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) stood up against them. If the Jews of Madina had not opposed him, if they had not shown hostility and if they had not betrayed the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), perhaps the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) would never have confronted them. Therefore, the Islamic invitation is a spiritual and reasonable invitation. This invitation means presenting an enlightened and happy lifestyle to human beings.
However, certain people emerge who oppose this lifestyle. Islam defeats these people because Islam never adopts a passive role. If there is someone who is opposed to human happiness and invitation to truth, Islam will fight with and stand up against this person. Now compare this with what imperialist powers have done throughout history. They are doing evil things today as well. They wage wars in order to increase their power and promote injustice.
If you take a look at today's global events, you will see that dominant and arrogant powers in the world build weapons in order to threaten humanity, not in order to promote justice. They do this in order to promote injustice, not in order to provide people with security. They build weapons to take away the security of those people who do not give in to them. Today, this is the main issue in the world.
This is the reason why we refer to this behavior as modern ignorance. The era of ignorance is not over yet. Ignorance means confronting truth, monotheism, people's rights and the path which God has opened for humanity's happiness. This ignorance exists today as well. However, it has a modern form and it benefits from science, advanced technologies, nuclear weapons and different other weapons for the sake of filling the pockets of the people in charge of destructive and devastating industries.
Today, the story of weapons and military expenses is one of the most tragic stories for people throughout the world. Today, weapons factories in the world build all kinds of weapons so that they can sell them. They wage wars in the world, make people kill one another and pit governments against one another. They issue threats so that they can satisfy and realize their treacherous, greedy and malevolent desires.
Therefore, as long as superpowers pull the strings in the world, wars will not come to an end. Waging wars is a source of materialistic interests for superpowers. Such wars are not waged on the path of justice. The Americans and others say that they wage wars in order to provide security. This is a lie. This is not at all the case. It is exactly the opposite of this. Wherever they show their military presence and wherever they deploy their troops, they cause insecurity, commit injustice and make life difficult for people.
Since modern technologies and tools emerged, people have come under pressure. Official and global reports show that the world did not witness wars for only three weeks out of 45 years since the end of the Second World War until the year 1990 of the Christian calendar - this era is known as the Cold War Era. Throughout these 45 years, there have been different wars in different corners of the world. Who has waged these wars? Those who build weapons have waged these wars.
The military expenses that superpowers incur are among the most unbelievable expenses. According to their own figures, the government of America spent 600 billion dollars on the military last year. Today, we witness that these expenses are allocated to wars in our neighboring countries. These expenses are allocated to Afghanistan with the purpose of suppressing the Muslim people of this country. These expenses are allocated to Iraq with the purpose of establishing full control over the people of Iraq. These expenses are allocated to helping the evil Zionist regime and to keeping the Middle East tumultuous forever. Today, corrupt powers are moving towards this direction. Islam fights against and opposes such people.
Those people whose interests lie in making Muslim peoples and governments fight against, hate and fear one another and in making them view one another as threats are people who think the maintenance of their power depends on waging wars. For them, war is a tool for looting. Why should all the resources of nations be allocated to buying and producing expensive weapons? It is because the owners of great companies can earn more money and take more joy from their lives by producing weapons. This is a taghuti, ignorant and dangerous system which has, unfortunately, dominated the lives of the people who live far away from the path of monotheism.
This system will definitely not survive because it is against truth and because it is evil and bound to perish: "Truth has arrived, and evil perished: for evil is bound to perish by nature" [The Holy Quran, 17: 81]. Evil means things which are against the divine tradition and creation. Evil is bound to perish and it is not eternal. One can see the signs of this destruction. When we look at global conditions, we see the signs of this destruction.
Today, the situation has changed in the world. Nations have awakened. Fortunately, Muslim peoples benefit from this awakening more than other peoples. Muslim peoples and governments are getting to understand the significance and greatness of Islam and the greatness of this reliable and dependable source of support.
Today, Islamic Awakening in the world of Islam has made global powers lose the power that they had in the past. Today, America's conditions have changed compared to the past. The countries which are most powerful after America have the same conditions and this is clear. Muslim peoples should appreciate the value of the path of monotheism and they should believe in divine promises. Today, Muslims' happiness lies in becoming united around the pivot of Islam.
Of course, there is and will be enmity. The more awakening is promoted in Muslim countries, the more the enemies of humanity feel endangered and - as a result - the more they show enmity. We know very well the meaning of the enmities which are shown towards the Islamic Republic. We know why they are showing these enmities towards us. The reason is that the Islamic Republic has carried the flag of Muslim peoples' awakening. The reason is that the Islamic Republic invites peoples and governments to unity and dignity and it says that they should appreciate their value in the shade of Islam. It is 31 years now that they are making efforts against the Islamic Republic and it is 31 years now that, by Allah's favor, the Islamic Republic is becoming stronger and more rooted on a daily basis. This process will continue in the future. The more enmities continue, the more our people, Muslim nations and popular fronts in the world of Islam find themselves and the more they will appreciate their value.
I hope that Allah the Exalted will help all Islamic governments and peoples to trust and rely on themselves and to have courage in the face of global powers. The power of these powers is coming to an end. Their power is phony and fake and evil will not survive. What survives is what benefits human beings: "The scum disappears like forth cast out; while that which is for the good of mankind remains on the earth" [The Holy Quran, 13: 17].
I hope that, by the blessedness of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) be'that, Allah the Exalted makes all of us get closer to the ways and paths of Islam. I hope that He makes our hearts get closer to divine obligations and divine teachings. I hope that He will make the hearts of Muslim peoples get closer to one another, and that He will help Muslim governments join hands so that, by His favor, the Islamic Ummah can restore its power, its esteem and its lost dignity.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
