
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Address to MPs"/>
We should be grateful to Allah the Exalted who has given us the opportunity to be present in the arena of this difficult test - the test of life and being alive - for another year. By Allah's grace and favor, we will meet at the end of this year with the dear MPs on the occasion of this parliament's election anniversary.
First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the honorable MPs and the Speaker for their efforts. And today they made good points in an unambiguous way. You have made great efforts in the arena of supervision, passing legislation, and other parliamentary responsibilities - which were mentioned by the honorable Speaker today. Yesterday I had a meeting with him, and he presented a more detailed report. You also played a role in important political arenas related to domestic and foreign policies. I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude for these efforts. One can see that the Majlis has actively declared its position wherever the Islamic Republic was confronted with a hostile and spiteful camp which was receiving support from across the world - the camps that have used various opportunities to demonstrate their presence and malevolence. The Majlis clearly declared its position on various issues related to Palestine, nuclear technology, and other issues. Similarly, as was mentioned in this meeting, the Majlis played a role in domestic issues related to the post-election fitna and the inappropriate actions of some people inside the country. This deserves thanks.
There are differences of opinion and political taste among the parties, but when you take a look at the structure of the Majlis, you find out that its members are dynamic, faithful, and conscientious individuals. In fact this is how the Majlis should be. 
Today our country - or maybe it is better to say our history - is concerned about our behavior. From a historical point of view, we are living in a very important era. Our decisions and actions will affect the future generations and the fate of this country. Of course every era of the Revolution has been like this. The past thirty years will affect the fate of the country. But it seems to me that the current era has exceptional characteristics. 
The conditions of the world are changing. Political conditions, political equations, and the balance of power are being transformed in the world, and one can see that a new order is being formed. As people involved in politics, you are well aware that in this situation all the elements can play a role in furthering their goals and ideals, or they may choose to stand by and watch. In a situation in which transformations are being made all over the world, an idle and unaware element will obviously play an insignificant role in the new political structure of the world. Active and vigilant elements that carefully consider the developments and try to make predictions can get a more stable position for themselves, a position that is more likely to benefit them and is closer to their goals and ideals. This is the current situation of the world. 
Just take a look at our own region, the Middle East. The events that are happening in the Middle East and the events related to the issue of Palestine are unprecedented. Such developments have never happened before. This shows that a change is being made, that a transformation is in progress. And if you take a look at the situation of the world - the position of the US and certain European countries and their influence and role in the world - you will see that great transformations are being made. During the past thirty years we have seen similar changes in certain eras - and I will discuss some of the cases that I have in mind - but one can clearly see these changes today. 
If we play a role in this situation, we will undoubtedly benefit the country and the Islamic Republic and will affect the fate of this country. And the role we need to play depends on the existence of sufficient domestic solidarity, power, motivation, and sincere cooperation. This is how we should consider our domestic issues, legislation, the relationship between the Majlis and the administration, and various positions adopted on domestic and foreign issues. We need to consider everything from this point of view. Then many of the things that may look important to us at first will become unimportant. Therefore, I believe that the present Majlis will, by Allah's favor, make the most of the opportunities in the last two years of its term in order to take the right and appropriate actions. Thankfully, the make-up of the present Majlis is good. The MPs are faithful, revolutionary, and well-informed. There are many educated and knowledgeable people among them. And our domestic issues are very sensitive. 
Fortunately, contrary to the expectations of the Islamic Republic's enemies, our people demonstrated a truly appropriate response. They showed that they love the Imam. According to the reports that I received, this year public turnout was more than last year and the year before. What is the meaning of this? So many people gathered in Tehran and other cities, and they demonstrated for several hours in that hot weather. They gathered in the streets and squares. That huge number of men, women, and children gathered in Behesht-e Zahra. I heard that some people remained out in the heat for 7 or 8 hours, which deserves praise and thanks. I deem it necessary to use this opportunity to express my heartfelt gratitude to our dear people and all those who have attended this impressive meeting for this level of loyalty. 
These matters are very important. After the passage of 21 years since the demise of Imam Khomeini (r.a.), our people showed how much they love him. The Imam is the symbol of the Revolution. He is the symbol of our religion. He is the symbol of the ideals he used to promote. He was the one who opened our eyes to those ideals for the first time and guided us towards them. He was the one who voiced the capability of our nation to achieve progress and perfection. When the people show their respect for such a person, it means that they respect these ideals. And these ideals can help a nation achieve prosperity. A nation that believes in its capacities and trusts Allah the Exalted cannot be thwarted by any obstacles that lie in its path to perfection. These are very important. You are the representatives of such a nation. Our people proved their rational and emotional presence and their spiritual ties with the Imam. They also proved their presence last year with their 40-million turnout rate. These are very valuable and significant. You and I are serving such a nation. A nation may be indifferent and lethargic. Such a nation should be treated in a particular way. But a nation that is so dynamic, enthusiastic, and wise should be treated in a totally different way. 
We have a heavy responsibility to shoulder. All government officials, including you and I, have to shoulder a heavy responsibility. As I said at Imam Khomeini's (r.a.) shrine, we need to take spiritual calculations into consideration. It is not the case that we have come to a solely logical conclusion that we should make efforts. No, we will have to answer to Allah the Exalted as well. Allah the Exalted will hold us responsible on the basis of the amount of the blessings He has bestowed on us. 
If we do our duties in a way that we can hold up our heads before Allah the Exalted, then we will be like the people described in the verse that the honorable qari recited in this meeting: "The great terror shall not grieve them, and the angels shall meet them: This is your day which you were promised." [The Holy Quran, 21: 103] When Allah the Exalted describes something as "great", it must be extremely terrifying. But those who make efforts and carry out their responsibilities will have nothing to worry about on Judgment Day. We must have faith in these things.
Many comments have been made about the Majlis by our MPs as well as people outside the Majlis. The Majlis has received some warnings. I myself have warned it too. Now I would like to make a few points some of which may not be new to you. 
When considering domestic issues - in your position as MPs, this is manifested in the form of passing legislation - idealism and realism are the two factors that should be taken into account. You should adopt an idealist perspective. As far as your ideals are concerned, do not settle for a compromise. Your perspective should be an idealist perspective, but you should also pay attention to the realities. We need to specify the limits. The responsibilities that we specify for ourselves, the administration, and government officials should be based on the realities, but we should move towards the ideals so that our capacities keep increasing on a daily basis. It is not appropriate to see realism as opposed to idealism. We should aim for our ideals - this is the criterion. But at the same time we must not lose sight of the realities. We should not get delusional. Sometimes one may get delusional when making decisions or doing what should be done. This is equally problematic. It is necessary to keep the ideals in mind, but it is also necessary to take the existing realities into consideration and move towards the ideals one step at a time. This is one of the points I wanted to make. 
Another point that has long been a subject of discussion is the issue of cooperation between the Majlis and the administration. You and I as well as administration officials have stressed this point. This cooperation should be put into practice. We will face an impossible situation if the Majlis says, "We have done everything that was necessary, and it is the administration that should come forward" and the administration says, "We have done everything that was necessary, and it is the Majlis that should come forward". We need to cooperate closely. The limits of both the Majlis and the administration have been specified by law. Of course some of these limits are not really clear. It is a fact that some of the limits are not clear, and this is a problem in our legislation. We have to specify the limits clearly. Today our country is in need of cooperation. That is to say, the administration must not develop a tendency to disobey the Majlis. Similarly, the Majlis must not develop a tendency to annoy the administration and delay it for no good reason. Therefore, they should help each other fully and closely, but at the same time they should also repect one another's position. This is a very important duty. 
For example, the two sides may argue with one another about the law - which is sometimes ambiguous enough to be debated. On the one hand, it is correct to say that the administration should practice the law. That is to say, whatever becomes a law should be implemented by the administration. On the other hand, lawmakers should try to put themselves in an executive manager's position. Executive affairs are very difficult. Some of you used to be executive officials and ministers. Some of you have the experience of working for different executive sectors. Actual implementation is very different from planned implementation. Therefore, we need to take the realties into account. The administration is the element that is out in the field and should implement the plans. We should try to make things easier for the administration. We should understand the restrictions that the administration has to work under. It is correct that the administration must practice the law. It is also correct that the Majlis should prepare the ground for the administration to practice the law. For instance, if the Majlis passes a law and requires the administration to practice it without specifying the necessary financial resources, it will be impossible for the administration to implement the law. Similarly, imagine that the administration prepares a bill on the basis of its capabilities, the available resources, and the resources of the country. But when it presents the bill to the Majlis, the Majlis makes so many amendments to the bill that it becomes something completely different. Administration officials often complain to me about these things. I myself have the experience of executive work. I was both an MP and an administration official. I know how to practice something and how to set things right. I also know how it is possible to practice something in a different way. We should pay attention to these points. 
They should cooperate closely. This has nothing to do with political tendencies. I am not addressing this to those who are politically aligned with the present administration. No, even those who are politically opposed to the present administration should take this advice. They, too, are our religious brothers and the children of the Revolution. The issue is the Revolution. The issue is the interests of the country. Everybody should work with this level of commitment. A particular law is passed by the Majlis in this way, and the administration is required to implement it. In this way it is possible to compel the administration to act according to the law. This cooperation should be bilateral. 
The next point that I want to mention is approved by the experienced brothers at the Majlis. The special commissions of the Majlis have to shoulder many responsibilities. They should work very hard. Of course the final decisions are made in open sessions, but the commissions do the fundamental work. I know certain MPs who used to study and consider various aspects of the issue before expressing their opinion in parliament commissions. It is very good if the MPs can do that. In this way when you take part in an open session and listen to the comments of the opponents and supporters of a certain bill, you will pay attention to every detail of their comments. But if you take part in an open session without any idea of the bill, the comments made by the opponents and supporters of the bill will make no sense. And your decisions will not be based on logical reasoning. This is true of legislation and other parliamentary activities such as voting for a minister. If you scrutinize the bill, your decisions will be based on logical reasons. Sometimes 10 MPs express their objection to a particular bill, and you realize that the atmosphere of objection is prevalent in the Majlis. But you have your own reasons to support the bill, and you act on the basis of your logical conclusions and your understanding of the issue. This is the right thing to do. What I am trying to say is that you should seriously scrutinize the bills in the commissions and even before they are discussed in the commissions. Therefore, it is very important to regularly take part in the commission sessions, and it is crucial to be punctual. 
The next point is about the supervisory role of the Majlis. The Majlis should supervise the executive organizations of the country, and this is very important. You should create a mechanism to supervise the Majlis and the individual MPs. Your term will end in two years. It is not clear whether you will be voted into the Majlis again. You may never be an MP again. But hundreds of people will come and go. After you leave, other MPs will be voted into your parliamentary seats. If you establish a solid mechanism to supervise the performance of the MPs, you will receive divine rewards as long as the supervisory mechanism works. Unfortunately, the opposite is also correct. If you fail to establish this supervisory mechanism through the authority that has been bestowed on you by God, you will be held responsible on Judgment Day. We are too often concerned about whether or not something we say will work in a court of law. Such courts are nothing. Human courts are not important. It is divine judgment that is important. "He knows the stealthy looks and that which the breasts conceal." [The Holy Quran, 40: 19] The depths of our hearts are clear to God. If we do something that is not among our responsibilities, people may not notice it. No one may thank us for that, but Allah the Exalted will notice and record it, and He will reward us. If we fail to do something, no one may notice. We may keep up the pretence and deceive the people into thinking that we have done a good job. No one may even notice. No one may blame us. But Allah the Exalted will record everything and will reproach us. I believe this is a very important point. 
Members of the Majlis may slip and fall into such traps, just like all of us. Wealth gives rise to fitna. This is not my opinion - it is what Imam Sajjad (a.s.) said. "Possessions are a tribulation." [Al-Sahifa al-Sajjadiyya, dua 27] Money gives rise to corruption. It makes hearts stray away from the right path. It can lure many people. Some people appear to be too firm to make such mistakes, but we see that even those people slip and fall into the pitfalls. The same is true of power, standing on ceremony, affection, and hostility - they all lure us into making mistakes. There should be a mechanism to supervise the performance of our MPs. I am thankful to Allah the Exalted for the fact that you dear brothers and sisters have a vigilant heart and welcome this supervision. 
The last point that I want to mention is the issue of the fifth development plan. This is extremely important. Of course this plan is being reviewed in the Majlis, and you are working on it. I believe the fifth development plan should be reviewed in a way that we do not face the problem I mentioned earlier. That is to say, the Majlis should not change the nature of the plan entirely and turn it into something different than the bill proposed by the administration to the Majlis. It should be reformed and improved, but it should not be turned into something else. This requires cooperation between the Majlis and the administration. I believe both the administration and the Majlis have a role to play in this regard.
You dear brothers and sisters should appreciate this blessing. You have been elected as representatives of the people, and you can play a role in determining what should and should not be done in this country. This is a great opportunity - a great blessing. You should thank God day and night for this blessing. 
In the past, this country was not in the hands of the people or their representatives. The people did not have a role to play. Since the time the Constitutional movement was started and the concept of voting and laws were introduced into the country up until the Revolution, all the parliaments in our country - except for the first few parliaments - were totally insignificant. It was not just the parliaments that were insignificant. The role of the people was insignificant too. Neither the managers nor the law-makers of the country were elected by the people. In fact the people did not have a role to play. This country was something completely different. The situation changed thanks to the Revolution. This should not be taken for granted. One should thank Allah the Exalted day and night for this great blessing. 
I hope Allah the Exalted will provide all of us with the opportunity to express our gratitude for this blessing and render services to the people. I hope Allah the Exalted will make the immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam - who gained this great victory and opened up this path - satisfied with us. I hope He will further raise his position in the hereafter. I hope Allah the Exalted will raise the position of the dear martyrs and mujahids who made all those efforts after the Revolution to strengthen the Islamic Republic on a daily basis. I hope He will reward all those who render services to the people. I hope He will reward you dear brothers and sisters as well. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
