
<meta year="2002" title="Leader's Statements in a Meeting with UN Secretary General"/>
Further in his remarks, the Leader referred to the situation in Afghanistan and stated that the Afghan people had long suffered from wars and bloodshed, and that they were now in dire need of stability and security.
"Besides, considering the long common border between Iran and Afghanistan, it is clear that the situation in Afghanistan would also affect our country. This is why we will do our utmost to help restore stability and security to our neighboring country," Ayatollah Khamenei told the UN Secretary General.
With regard to the issue of Afghanistan's reconstruction, the Leader stated:
"We hope that the process of reconstruction will get under way as soon as possible and in the most appropriate manner. The Islamic Republic will also contribute to Afghanistan's reconstruction because we are committed to helping our Afghan brothers. This is what we have done for the past two decades, during which we have hosted nearly three million Afghan refugees."
Ayatollah Khamenei pointed out that measures should also be taken in the reconstruction period to put an end to the cultivation of poppy and replace it with some useful agricultural crop, since the export of narcotics from Afghanistan is posing a serious threat to the neighboring and other regional countries.
As regards the U.S. military presence in Afghanistan on the pretext of fighting terrorism, Leader of the Islamic Republic noted:
"It should be stressed that we welcome and are quite in favor of an international campaign against terrorism, since a real campaign against terrorism will benefit all countries.
"In fact, we will benefit from this anti-terror campaign more than any other state, since we have suffered from numerous acts of terrorism ever since the victory of the Islamic Revolution.
"However, the U.S. military presence in Afghanistan is a cause of great concern for the Afghan nation and other regional countries, because it appears that this so-called anti-terror campaign is used as a pretext for advancing interventionist and expansionist policies and bullying independent nations."
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say:
"The reality on the ground is that, presently, there is no true campaign against terrorism in the world. Those terrorist groups that have committed many crimes in Iran are now based in the United States and certain European countries, and no action is being taken against them.
"Besides, the question is: Why is no action being taken against the Zionist regime's state terrorism? The heinous crimes and atrocities that are being perpetrated by the Zionist regime against the innocent Palestinian men, women and children residing in different towns and villages in the occupied territories are indeed nothing but flagrant acts of terrorism.
"Although those countries that claim to spearhead the anti-terror campaign are conniving at the Zionists' acts of terrorism, they have placed on their so-called list of terrorist groups the Palestinians and the Lebanese, who are only seeking to restore their legitimate rights that have been violated by the Zionist regime, the rights which have been recognized even by the international community!
"Mr. Annan! I think we should adopt a proper stance on the issue of Palestine. The United States is continuing to add to the arsenal of the Zionist regime and is even boosting its nuclear capabilities. This is posing a serious threat to the region and to the Arab and Islamic world.
"I believe that you, as the UN Secretary General, should use the UN General Assembly to inform the world public of the realities related to Palestine. You can even hold an international conference, as we have already suggested, on defining terrorism, since the definition of terrorism that is presented by the United States cannot be used as a criterion.
"Who in the world does not know that one of the major sponsors of terrorism over the past decades has been the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency?! Many political assassinations have been conducted by the CIA in Latin America and other parts of the world, including the Middle East, during the past decades. Thus, the U.S. is by no means eligible to define terrorism!" 
Referring to the function of the United Nations, the Leader stated:
"It seems that certain powers would like to use the United Nations and its authority and powers to advance their own interests and accomplish their own objectives. You should not allow them to do so. You are able to prevent the exploitation of the United Nations by these powers.
"Instead, the UN authority and powers should be used to counter oppression and to dispense justice in the world. Today, the Zionist regime and the United States are the root cause of oppression and injustice." 
In conclusion, Ayatollah Khamenei prayed that Mr. Annan would perform his heavy responsibilities in the capacity of the UN Secretary General with great success and in the most appropriate manner.
