
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Speech to Students of Imam Hussein (a.s.) University"/>
I would like to congratulate you dear youth - who are the sources of hope for the future of this country - for the achievements you have made during your studies. I would also like to congratulate you on the 3rd of Khordad - which is an unforgettable day in the history of the Revolution and even in the history of our country. 
Today's ceremony was very good, and just like the Army of the Guardians of the Revolution, it was a combination of spirituality, spiritual and physical capabilities and practical and intellectual preparedness. It was a sign of the progress that the Army of the Guardians of the Revolution has made. 
My dear ones, liberation of Khorramshahr - which was in fact the peak of Operation Beitol Moghaddas in the year 1361 - holds lessons for all of us and for our past and future. This is because on that day the brave members of the Army and the Army of the Guardians of the Revolution managed to deal a great blow to the enemy through their amazing and praiseworthy harmony and their indescribable bravery and selflessness. The blow did not just harm the Iraqi army, but it also harmed the system of global arrogance, which had deployed its forces behind the war machine of the Ba'ath Party. Nobody could predict such an event, but it happened. 
What was the main factor that gave rise to that event? One can enumerate some factors, but the spirit of trust in God and confidence in one's capabilities were the main factors behind that event. Through conventional calculations, nobody could predict that such an event would take place. But our youth, our faithful men and our soldiers serving in the Armed Forces entered the arena with their determination, faith, reliance on God, selflessness, bravery and death-defying spirit, and they gave rise to that great event. Liberation of Khorramshahr is the peak of these achievements. It is the outcome of these achievements. There were hundreds of amazing manifestations of selflessness during the time Operation Beitol Moghaddas took place. 
I ask you dear youth to read the available accounts of this operation. Some accounts have fortunately been published in this regard. Read them carefully and see what happened in the operation. See what our youth and men did. It would take a big book to list their names, but as an example, I would mention the names of people like the brave, liberated and selfless commander, Ahmad Motavaselian. See what they did in this great confrontation and what sources of power they used. The famous quotation by our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) - that is, "Khorramshahr was liberated by God" - is the most accurate and the wisest comment that has been made in this regard. Just like the verse "So you did not slay them, but it was Allah Who slew them, and you did not smite when you smote (the enemy), but it was Allah Who smote." [The Holy Quran, 8: 17] The power of Allah the Exalted was manifested in the hearts, iron determination, patience, strong arms and innovation of our soldiers. The enemy was dependent on its material power. It goes without saying that material power cannot stand up against such manifestations of spirituality and humanity. This has always been the case, and today material powers - with all their power, money, industrial development, advanced technology and scientific advances - are not able to stand up against a group of people who rely on faith, determination, effort and selflessness as their standard. 
The same people who fought the Iranian nation and its soldiers at that time are now opposing the Iranian nation again. We should recognize them. America, NATO, England, France and Germany were fighting us at that time too. They provided Saddam Hussein with military weapons, chemicals, planes, war plans and updated intelligence about the battlefields. They had thrown their weight behind him in the hope that they will manage to defeat the Islamic Republic of Iran, the lofty system of monotheism and spirituality, the flag of monotheism and humanity that had been raised in Iran and the nation's shout for liberation and independence. They were the same people who were behind Saddam Hussein, and they are the ones who oppose us today. Today the same people who are trying to stand realities on their heads through their propaganda are the source of insecurity in most parts of the world. The same people who are threatening the world are trying to convince the world that Iran is a threat. Those who commit crimes in Pakistan on a daily basis, those who have been killing and imprisoning people in Iraq and Afghanistan, those who are behind the evil forces of the usurping Zionist regime - the same people are against the Iranian nation today. The same people were behind Saddam Hussein in the year 1361. They were defeated at that time, and I assure you that they will be defeated today as well.
The Islamic Republic is not just a republic similar to other governments and other republics and non-republics in the world. The Islamic Republic is a government that has a message. The message of the Islamic Republic is one that nations of the world are thirsty for. The Islamic Republic is different from other countries, other governments and other kinds of political systems that are preoccupied with a geographical territory and are ruled by people immersed in different human passions. It is a matter of values. It is a matter of humanity. It is a matter of saving nations from the yoke of interfering and domineering powers. Our Islamic system has a message for humanity. It is due to this message that the greedy powers of the world have deployed their forces against the Iranian nation. If today were the first day of this confrontation, some people might lose their confidence. But today is not the first day. This confrontation has been continuing for thirty one years in different forms - including military invasions, political attacks, economic sanctions and different other threats. Different rulers have come to power in hegemonic countries during the past 31 years, but the Iranian nation has been standing firm. This firm stronghold has been gaining more glory on a daily basis. This divine and fruit-bearing sapling, this immaculate tree, has been taking root in this fertile land on a daily basis. 
Even if the enemies of spirituality and Islamic values and the enemies of our dear Islamic Iran had some hope at that time, they are totally desperate today. They are making efforts in desperation. They do not know the path. They do not know the Iranian nation. They are comparing their calculations to the calculations of 30-50 years ago, the era of superpowers' unrivaled domination. This comparison is wrong. The world has changed, and nations have awakened. Therefore, today the people of Iran and their prominent youth - the dear youth serving the Army of the Guardians of the Revolution - fill the hearts of people of the world with hope. Many of the governments in the world have pinned their hopes on you. Although they know that the Islamic Republic is not the kind of government to interfere in internal affairs of other countries, these messages and this resistance and spiritual power - which are manifested in all arenas -make them hopeful and encourage them to resist. Today in Asia, in Africa, in America and even in Europe, many peoples have pinned their hopes on you and praise you.
My dear ones, you should appreciate this youth and this youthful energy and talent. You should appreciate this opportunity and use it for growth and development. You dear youth, the youth who are serving the Army, the youth who are serving the Police and the youth who are active in the sacred and immaculate Basij organizations enjoy facilities today that our prominent, faithful and sincere youth never had access to. Try to make use of these opportunities. Making good use of these opportunities is the best way to express your gratitude to God. 
Dear God, bestow Your grace and mercy on this organization. Dear God, bestow Your best blessings and grace on our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) who opened up this path in front of us. Dear God, improve the position of our dear martyrs who are alive and will remain alive. Associate us with those honorable people, and convey the greetings of this organization to the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake). 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
