
<meta year="2010" title="Leader's Speech to People of Qom"/>
In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful
Each year, the Iranian people, especially the honorable and insightful people Qom, impress upon the arrogant powers of the world the momentous and historical event of the 19th of Dey. Undoubtedly, the event of the 19th of Dey [January 9, 1978] is worthy of being impressed upon the enemy.
This event can be viewed from various perspectives. The 19th of Dey is characterized by selfless efforts and sacrifices, knowledge of the enemy and the requirements of one's time. It is an event that inspires deep insights. These are the aspects of the great event that happened 32 years ago on Dey 19, 1356. Moreover, it was a transforming event and caused a great and purposeful movement in Iran. Therefore, this event was a truly great event. That day was significant, and today your commemoration of the 19th of Dey and the people who were martyred on that day is also significant. This commemoration can provide people with insight, lessons, and direction.
All days of the year are essentially the same. It is human beings, their determination, and selfless efforts that make certain days prominent and turn them into a flag to guide other people. Ashura - the 10th of Muharram - is not in itself different from other days. It was Imam Hussein (a.s.) who gave life and meaning to that day and raised its position. It was the selfless efforts of Hussein ibn Ali's (a.s.) companions that made Ashura so important. The same is true of the 19th of Dey as well as its anniversary this year. In essence, there is no difference between the 9th and 10th of Dey. It is the people who can make a certain day more prominent through their movement, a movement rooted in the same factors that gave rise to the event on the 19th of Dey in Qom. That is to say, such movements originate from insight, presence in the arenas of struggle, and knowledge of the enemy and requirements of one's time.
I assure you that Dey 9 of this year [nationwide demonstrations held on December 30, 2009] has gone down in history - it became a prominent day. I would say that this public movement was doubly important in the current unclear situation. It was a great achievement. The more one thinks about these events, the more one can see the powerful Hand of Allah the Exalted, the spirit of Wilayat, and the soul of Hussein ibn Ali (a.s.). Such things cannot be done through the determination of people like us. This was done by God, by the powerful Hand of the Almighty. As I have repeatedly said before, once Imam Khomeini (r.a.) told me in a critical situation, "All this time, I could see the powerful Hand of God behind these events."
In a fitna, things are more difficult. It is more difficult to distinguish (right from wrong) in a fitna. Of course Allah the Exalted always presents people with ultimate proof. God does not withhold any proof from people, so they cannot say, "You did not provide us with the ultimate proof and guidance and that was why we strayed from the right path." This has been repeatedly mentioned in the Holy Quran. God's guidance is to be seen everywhere. We just need to open our eyes. We must open up our eyes and use all the means at our disposal in order to see the reality that God has placed in front our eyes.
The important point is that one should make selfless efforts. These selfless efforts will benefit those who make them, and Allah the Exalted will help them in this regard. This was the case with the Dey 19 uprising of the people of Qom as well as the Dey 9 demonstrations this year - which was indeed a great movement by millions of people. Such events are not few and far between in the history of the Revolution. These selfless efforts will show us the path we should tread.
In the Battle of Siffin, the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) was not faced with infidels. Those who were fighting against the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) used to pray and recite the Holy Quran. They used to keep up appearances. It was a very difficult situation. Who should clarify the realities to people in such a situation? Some people were filled with doubts. When you read about the Battle of Siffin, you are filled with anxiety. On several occasions, doubts were raised in the great army that the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) had deployed against Muawiyah in the strategic region of Sham. This happened on several occasions, and the events lasted several months. Sometimes it was reported to Imam Ali (a.s.) that a certain individual was hesitant and that he was saying such things as, why are we fighting this battle and what is the use of it? In such situations, the companions of the Commander of the Faithful - the sincere and special companions who were with Imam Ali (a.s.) since the beginning and never abandoned him - used to take the lead.
Ammar ibn Yasir, who used to shoulder the most important responsibility, was among these sincere companions. Once Ammar ibn Yasir presented the hesitant soldiers with excellent reasoning. His reasoning can be held up as a model. He found out that some people were in doubt, so he went to them and gave a speech, presenting them with good reasons. He said, I saw the same flag that is being carried by the opposing camp being raised in the Battle of Uhud and Khaibar against the Holy Prophet (s.a.w.a.), and the same people who were standing under that flag during the time of the Prophet (s.a.w.a.) - that is, Muawiyah and Amr ibn al-As - are now standing under the flag you see now. In the Battle of Uhud, Muawiyah and Amr ibn al-As as well as other chiefs of the Umayyad tribe had deployed their forces against the Prophet (s.a.w.a.). It was the flag of the Umayyad tribe. He said, the people you see standing under this flag are the same people who were standing under the same flag to fight the Prophet (s.a.w.a.), and I saw that with my own eyes. He said, the camp of the Commander of the Faithful and the flag that is being carried by the Imam Ali is the same flag that was raised in the Battle of Badr and Uhud as well, and the same people who are standing under the flag of Bani Hashim - that is, the Ali ibn Abi Talib and his companions - were standing under the same flag during the time of the Prophet (s.a.w.a.). What sign can be better than this? He said the flag was the same flag that had been raised in the Battle of Uhud against the Prophet (s.a.w.a.), and the people who were standing under it were the same people. The only difference was that the opposing camp proudly declared that they were infidels in the Battle of Uhud, but the same people standing under the same flag were claiming that they were Muslims and that they supported the Quran and the Prophet (s.a.w.a.) in the Battle of Saffin. This is what I mean by insight.
Who has stood under the flag of opposing Imam Khomeini (r.a) and the Revolution ever since the beginning of the Revolution? The US, Britain, the arrogant powers, and the reactionary figures who are dependent on the arrogant and domineering powers have all assembled under this flag. Take a look and see what position the US has adopted during the past 7 or 8 months both before and after the presidential election. What position has Britain adopted? What has been the position of the Zionist media? What has been the position of anti-religion groups, ranging from the members of the Tudeh Party to monarchists and other anti-religion groups? These are the same people who opposed Imam Khomeini (r.a.) and the Revolution since the beginning of the Revolution, and threw stones, shot bullets, and promoted terrorism. Three days after the victory of the Revolution on Bahman 22, the same people gathered in front of Imam Khomeini's residence on Iran Avenue and started shouting slogans. These people now come to the streets and shout slogans against the government and the Revolution. Nothing has changed. When they were so-called leftists, they used to be backed by the US. Similarly, when they claimed to be socialists, liberals, and freedom-seekers, they used to be backed by all the major and minor reactionary, arrogant, and despotic powers of the world. The situation is the same today. These are all signs and criteria. And what is important is that the people are aware of these criteria. And even if we thank God hundreds of times for this, we have not been thankful enough. We have to thank God that our people are vigilant.
This great nation and people from various backgrounds will look at the scene and understand it. This is a very great and important factor. That is why I said Dey 9 is a day which will go down in history. The people are vigilant. My dear ones, it is this vigilance which has safeguarded your country. It is due to such vigilance that the heads of the arrogant powers don't dare to attack the Iranian nation. They are afraid of attacking us. In their propaganda, they name different individuals and attack them. But the truth is something different. Their true enemy is the Iranian nation and the faith and insight of the Iranian people. Their true enemy is the religious passion of the Iranian youth. Sometimes the people are patient, and they have to be. But they enter the scene when it is time for them to do so.
Analyzing the current events of the country is not independent of global events. The events which happen in the world are related to the events which happen in the region. And some of these events are related to our country. Of course the ones that are related to our country are the most basic and fundamental ones. The reason is that the arrogant powers believe that their lack of success originates from here. This is indicative of the role a nation and a group of people can play. This is the reason why our magnanimous Imam used to repeatedly address the Islamic Ummah. When a nation is vigilant, it can ruin all the calculations of the arrogant powers.
The Iranian nation prevented the enemy from achieving its goals. Now imagine what will happen if all Muslim nations enter the scene. Imagine what will happen in the world if all Muslim nations show the same level of insight and preparedness [as we do]. This is what they are afraid of. They want to make us silent so that other nations cannot hear us. They want to prevent other nations from realizing how much the vigilance and insight of a nation can affect global events.
Let me mention a point to the dear revolutionary youth and my dear revolutionary children, and to my Basiji children, including both men and women. The youth of different parts of the country are angry with what they see and hear about the disrespect of foreigners towards their religious beliefs. They become angry and their hearts are filled with pain when they see a group of people desecrating the Day of Ashura and insulting Imam Hussein (a.s.) and those who were mourning his martyrdom on the Day of Ashura. Of course this is a natural reaction, and these people have every right to have such feelings. But what I want to say is that the dear youth have to be careful because any thoughtless action will benefit the enemies.
There are some youth who call my office. Their phone calls and letters are usually summarized and brought to me every day. I have a look at them. I see that some youth are angry and complain about certain things. They sometimes complain why I am so patient. They complain why I am so lenient. I have to say that in circumstances where the enemy is making use of all its tools and doing everything in its power to organize a fitna and start a dangerous game, we have to take care not to do something which will help them achieve their goal. We have to act with great care and wisdom and act decisively when necessary. There are organizations which are responsible for taking action in this regard, and there are laws as well. Everything has to be done in a decisive manner according to the law without violating the law in any circumstances. But if people who are not in charge and responsible for enforcing the law enter the scene, everything will be ruined.
Allah the Exalted has ordered us, "And let not hatred of a people incite you not to act equitably. Be just. That is nearer to observance of duty." [The Holy Quran, 5: 8] Of course there are some people who act in a hostile manner, and some people who act maliciously. And there are some people who support those who act with malice. These things happen. But we have to be careful. If we act carelessly and without proper understanding, the rights of the innocent individuals who detest these people will be violated. This is something which should not happen. I advise the dear youth and my dear revolutionary children against taking the law into their own hands. Everything has to be done according to the law.
Thankfully, the officials of the country are vigilant and know what direction the people are moving in. Ultimate proof was provided for everyone. The great movement of the people on Dey 9 provided everyone with ultimate proof. The officials of the executive branch, the judiciary, and the legislative branch as well as the officials of different organizations all know that the people are present on the scene, and they are aware of what the people want. Different organizations of the country have to fulfill their duties. They have to fulfill their duties both in regard to rioters, corrupt people, and those who act against the Revolution and national security and in regard to management of the country. The country's affairs are not limited to rioters only. The country has to handle its economic, scientific, political, international, and security affairs. There are hundreds of important affairs which the officials of the country have to deal with. The officials have to deal with these affairs, manage the country, and help the country make progress.
Through these events, the enemies are trying to prevent our country from making progress. We should not help the enemies in this regard. Through these events, the enemies intend to stop the wheels of our economic progress from spinning. Thankfully, the wheels of our scientific progress are turning at a high speed and a good scientific movement has been started in the country. The enemies want to stop the wheels of our scientific progress from spinning. The enemy wants to undermine the strong presence of the Islamic Republic on international political stages - a presence which is now much stronger than it was in the past. The enemy is after achieving such goals. We should not help the enemies achieve their goals. Therefore, the officials should fulfill their duties in economic, scientific, political, and social arenas. They should fulfill all their duties in a strong and accurate manner. And the administration officials and other officials of the country should also continue to cooperate with one another. The people have proven that they are present on the scene.
Enjoying the people's support is the greatest asset for a government. They tried to undermine this great movement by the people. They said that the demonstration had been organized by the government. These ignorant people do not know that they are in fact praising our government through these words. Which government can mobilize such a large number of people across the country in a matter of two days? They did those evil actions on Sunday [Day of Ashura] and the movement of the people took place on Wednesday. What other country and government has such power today? Even if they do their best, the most powerful and the richest governments in the world - which squander large amounts of money on training spies and terrorists and promoting vandalism - cannot bring tens of millions of people to the streets of their cities or country in a matter of two days. If these people were mobilized by the government, then this means that our government is very powerful. This means that our government is so strong that it can mobilize such a large number of people.
The reality is something else. The reality is that in our country, the people and the government are not separate from one another. They are the same. The officials of the country - including me and other officials of the country - are all drops in the great ocean of the Iranian nation.
May Allah the Exalted bestow His mercy on the immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) who was the founder of this great movement. May God bestow His mercy on the immaculate soul of our dear martyrs who were the pioneers of this great movement. "And the foremost are the foremost. These are drawn nigh (to Allah)." [The Holy Quran, 56: 10-11] It was them who opened this path and paved the way for us. And may Allah bestow His mercy on you dear people and youth who demonstrate such insight and preparedness and who have frustrated all enemies' hopes of gaining control over your country, government, and Revolution. May Allah protect you all.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
