
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Iranian Ambassadors and Charge d'Affaires"/>
I would like to welcome the dear brothers who are active on great international fronts - that is to say, the arena of foreign policy and diplomacy. I ask Allah the Exalted to bestow His blessings on you, on us and on everyone. I hope that we can find the straight path at any stage and that we can take this path in a perseverant way. 
I would like to express my gratitude to Dr. Salehi. He raised good points. What he referred to as responsibilities and goals is completely true and, by Allah's favor, we will be waiting for these goals to be achieved. This requires diligence accompanied by purity and reliance on Allah the Exalted. Of course, today, our diplomacy is undoubtedly more experienced, competent and prepared than what it was during the early years of the Revolution. 
I would like to discuss a few things about paying attention to spirituality in the course of carrying out our activities. What makes all of our efforts blessed and what strengthens our determination and willpower is reliance on Allah the Exalted, attention to Him and purity. This is necessary in all areas. You, your family and your children who live abroad need this spirituality very much. Well, we thank God because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is among our good and wealthy ministries in terms of religiousness and revolutionary spirit. There is no doubt about this. I am aware of the activities and great efforts of the dear brothers in charge of foreign policy. The more attention we pay to Allah the Exalted, the more purity we enjoy and the more we rely on God, the better our work will be done. 
It is wrong to think that we can take a single step forward without relying on and asking for divine power. Blessed work is the kind of work which is accompanied by a pure spirit and supplication before God. We should ask God to increase our capabilities. We should strengthen our relationship with God. You friends and dear brothers should pay more attention to this point particularly in your own family. In each country you work, your family includes the large family of ambassadors and people in charge of diplomacy, and your small family - that is to say, your wives and your children. You should strengthen your relationship with Allah the Exalted in your family.
I am aware that our embassies hold religious ceremonies. They even perform rowza in Muharram and Ramadan. In a number of ceremonies, sinezani is performed. These things are very good. These are religious acts which provide us with certain blessings, but it is necessary to do this more. It is necessary to establish a close relationship with Islamic teachings, Islamic prayers and the Holy Quran. 
The task that you carry out in your embassies is not an ordinary task. You are fighting in a front which is different from other diplomatic fronts in the world. The arena of diplomacy is the arena of challenge and confrontation everywhere in the world. This is because the interests of countries and nations clash with one another and, in many cases, these clashes manifest themselves in the arena of diplomacy. Therefore, this confrontation and challenge exists everywhere. 
However, your responsibilities are more than these things. You are representatives of this divine and spiritual system. Even if this system does not confront any of the arrogant powers and governments, they begin to confront it, because it is in our system's nature to confront arrogance, oppression and transgression. If you take a look at newly-awakened countries and peoples, you will see that arrogance expresses its concern whenever it is said that such and such an Islamic front achieved victory - whether in elections or in a certain demonstration. This is while it is not clear how those people who win elections will act later on. What makes arrogant powers go wild is the essence of Islamic orientation. This is because Islamic orientation is inherently against arrogance, oppression, occupation of other countries and transgression towards the rights of people.
These are things which form the basis of arrogant rule in the world. Global arrogant rule cannot thrive without showing interference in the affairs of other countries, transgressing the rights of nations and jeopardizing the interests of peoples. These bases naturally contradict Islamic bases, slogans and identity. Therefore, they become concerned whenever the name of Islam is mentioned. 
Well, you have a political system, a government and a country which is well-known because of Islam, which has achieved growth because of Islam and in which Islamic slogans become more prominent on a daily basis. In this country and political system, progress is achieved in the shade of these slogans. 
Today, whenever we meet with managers and officials in charge of our nuclear industry, our nanotechnology industry and other advanced and sensitive industries of our country, they are proud of being basijis and acting in a basiji way. The Islamic Republic of Iran is such a system. Therefore, it is natural that you have an extraordinary challenge which is beyond ordinary challenges in the arena of diplomacy throughout the world. This position requires strength of heart and firm determination. These characteristics are not achieved without reliance on Allah the Exalted and trust in divine power.
We should have trust in Allah the Exalted. Allah the Exalted criticizes those people who do not have trust in Him and who doubt Him. What does having doubts about God's promises mean? It means that we think God's promises such as "And surely Allah will help him who helps His cause" [The Holy Quran, 22: 40] and "As for those who strive hard for Us, We will most certainly guide them in Our ways" [The Holy Quran, 29: 69] are not true. 
In Sura al-Fath, Allah the Exalted says, "And that He may punish the hypocritical men and the hypocritical women, and the polytheistic men and the polytheistic women, the entertainers of evil thoughts about Allah" [The Holy Quran, 48: 6]. The characteristic of polytheistic men and women and hypocritical men and women is that they do not trust God. Then he says, "On them is a round of Evil. The Wrath of Allah is on them. He has cursed them and got Hell ready for them. And evil is it for a destination" [The Holy Quran, 48: 6]. We should not have any doubt about God. Allah the Exalted says that if we take action for His sake, for promoting His religion and for reviving values that He approves, then He will help us. 
This is true. This is the divine promise. He says, "Verily Allah will defend from ill those who believe" [The Holy Quran, 22: 38]. God defends anyone who believes in Him. Well, there are many believers whom God has not defended. These believers are being trampled underfoot by arrogant powers. Why is that? This is because other divine traditions have not been observed. This is because they have not made any move and they have not taken any action. 
Therefore, jihad and diligence are necessary. If a people believe in God, but do not make any effort, they will certainly be trampled underfoot. In such conditions, "Verily Allah will defend from ill those who believe" will not come true for them. This faith should be accompanied by diligence. If this happens, Allah the Exalted will fulfill his promise. The meaning of "those who fled their home and strove hard in the way of Allah" [The Holy Quran, 2: 218] is that one should move forward, take action and make a decision. This is the sacred battle that a believer spends his entire life engaging in. 
Well, desire for ease is the exact opposite of diligence. Battle involves trouble. There is no doubt about this. Any difficult move on the path of lofty ideals unsettles our tendency to be lazy and self-indulgent. Human beings have a tendency to desire ease. If we overcome this tendency and if we can direct our energy and efforts towards the path of achieving these ideals, then we will reach peaks. Of course, this involves certain hardships, but it involves success as well.
Compare today's Islamic Revolution with the Islamic Revolution during the early years of the Revolution which were years of isolation, poverty, scarcity and extreme hardships. On the one hand, the war broke out and on the other hand, international sanctions were imposed and all paths were closed on us. These are issues which have repeatedly been mentioned and which you are aware of. You yourselves were present in different arenas - whether in the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, in Basij or in other active organizations - in those days and you have witnessed certain hardships. Now take a look at the present time. Today, the Islamic Republic holds its head high while the slogans that it used to chant 30 years ago are being repeated in countries which were our enemies in those years. Are these not achievements? Is this not progress?
In a certain meeting on Islamic Awakening, I said that in the beginning of the Revolution, one of the things which we were thinking about was watching the reflection of our revolutionary movement in different Islamic countries - primarily in Egypt. At that time, Egypt was not raising any voice. In that meeting, I recited a certain poem. The Arabs who were present in that meeting understood what I was saying. Today, the Egypt of Hosni Mubarak, the Egypt of Anwar Sadat and the kind of Egypt which offered refuge to Mohammad Reza Shah - who was rejected by every country, even America - is in the hands of people who shout the slogan of Allahu Akbar, who say public prayers, who chant Islamic slogans and who speak about forming an Islamic government. 
Progress means this, strength means this, power means this. It is not important who they learned this from. It is good for us to avoid arousing sensitivity about such issues. Why should we ask who they learned this from? We do not want to say who they were inspired by. The main issue is that what we have been saying for 30 years is being echoed in North Africa, in the Middle East and in the Persian Gulf. Today, Islamic Iran is in such conditions. 
All the efforts - such as all-out sanctions and different plots, political pressures and propaganda efforts - that are made against the Islamic Republic are because of the achievement made by the Islamic Republic. This is the meaning of "as for those who strive hard for Us, We will most certainly guide them in Our ways". This is the meaning of "Verily Allah will defend from ill those who believe" and this is the interpretation and translation of "and surely Allah will help him who helps His cause". We no longer look for these promises in books. Rather, we are witnessing the manifestation of these promises in the realities of life. The realities of life are showing this to us.
Well, we should build diplomacy on the basis of these realities. Fortunately, this is happening. Our movement in the sensitive, fateful and very influential arena of diplomacy should be one that takes this outlook and attention to ideals into account. It is wrong to think that we will fall behind the world of diplomacy if we are committed to our values. This is not at all the case. In different eras, there were certain officials, diplomats, officials in charge of non-diplomatic affairs and even clerics who began to doubt these issues. They were uncertain to what extent commitment to values would allow us to be successful in the area of diplomacy. But we went through this and we realized that the more committed we are, the more honorable and respectable the Islamic Republic will be in the eyes of the other side. 
At some point in the past, a number of officials thought, "whenever we have a meeting with foreign diplomats, it will be good for us to confirm what they say". And they did this. They sat and repeated the things which foreign diplomats have been saying for a hundred years. This makes you lose your dignity before the other side. This shows that you have nothing of your own. But if you stick to your own principles, your own analyses of events and your own idea about the future and if you handle affairs in a powerful way, this will make the other side think highly of you. This is one of the tools and ways for achieving victory.
As you know, making the other side change its mind and accept your argument at the negotiating table is one of the most important bases for achieving victory in the arena of action. A competent negotiator is a person who can impose his ideas on the other negotiator. However, this cannot be done by creating uproar and fuss. This is possible with wisdom, cleverness, sound reasoning and self-confidence. Of course, this can only be achieved by relying on God and establishing a close relationship with the Holy Quran and prayers.
I advise you dear ones to establish a close relationship with Sahifa al-Sajjadiyya. I advise you to constantly read the fifth prayer in Sahifa al-Sajjadiyya. The fifth prayer in Sahifa al-Sajjadiyya belongs to us, as is the case with all the prayers in this dua. The part which reminds us of death, the part which warns us about sins and the part which illustrates for us the greatness of divine spirituality, the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), his companions and divine angels are all a source of strength for us. In any arena, intrinsic strength is determining for us. If our intrinsic make-up - whether in our hearts and souls or in our society in general - is firm and solid, nothing can stand up against it. This is my first and foremost piece of advice to you.
Diplomacy is important. The arena of diplomacy is the arena of battle. In this battle, you should be strong. If you want to be strong, you - both you yourselves and your family - should strengthen your relationship with God. You should attach significance to your family including your large family of diplomats and your personal family.
Sometimes, a small rift inside the family changes us. The Commander of the Faithful says, "Zubair was with us. He was close to the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household". This was really the case. As you know, when the first caliph - Abu Bakr - was addressing the people from his minbar after the demise of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), about 10 companions of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) stood up and openly defended the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.). They said, "The minbar that you have occupied belongs to Ali ibn Abi Talib". One of these 10 companions was Zubair. 
Zubair was not a friend in times of comfort only. He was a friend in need. The Commander of the Faithful said, "Zubair stayed with us until his son Abdullah grew up" [ibn Abi al-Hadid's Commentary on Nahjul Balaghah, Volume 2, page 167]. He followed the Commander of the Faithful until his son grew up. When Abdullah grew up, he entered the arena and started to interfere in decision-making. This was when Zubair changed. Zubair turned into a person who drew his sword on the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.). Sometimes, a small rift inside the family exerts such a considerable impact. Therefore, we should prevent this rift from being created and this is not possible except by relying on Allah the Exalted, dhikr and attention to God. 
Another issue is that, as Mr. Salehi pointed out in his speech, political alignments in the world are changing dramatically today. Today, a great event is taking place in the world. I cannot properly define this event and perhaps, no one can. A certain event is taking place in the world. 
Part of this event is related to Islamic countries particularly Arab countries and the revolutions which were conducted in these countries. These events are really revolutions. With a correct interpretation and analysis, we can realize that these are really revolutions in the real sense of the word. Of course, they have different levels. 
This is one part of the event. Another part of the event is the astonishing incidents which are taking place in the world. I know no other event which is similar to this one. Review your historical memory and see if you know any event which is similar to this.
Of course, the first part of the event - that is to say, the revolutions which have their roots in Islamic Awakening - have certain similarities with other revolutions. These revolutions have certain similarities and differences with the regional revolutions which were carried out in the past, although the previous revolutions did not have the depth and greatness that the current revolutions do. 
In the late 1950s and early 1960s of the Christian calendar, a number of revolutions were carried out in all regional countries. In Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria, a revolution was carried out. All of these countries launched certain movements, but there is a major difference between those revolutions and today's revolutions. Those revolutions were not popular. Most of them were organized by certain groups and they were limited. 
In some countries like Egypt only a coup d'etat was launched. In Egypt, a group of young officers replaced the regime of the time. In some countries like Algeria, this movement was not a coup d'etat. It was a popular movement, but it was under the control of political parties. It was the political parties which had control over events. The movement was not really in the hands of the people. Therefore, there is such a difference between today's' revolutions and the ones which were carried out in the past. In the present time, the situation has completely changed.
If we want to give another example, we can refer to the events which took place in Eastern Europe in 1990s. In those events, governments were toppled one after the other. Of course, the main difference between those events and today's regional revolutions is that in the former, America and the West played a leading part. 
For example, when a movement started in Poland, westerners used an installed element although he was a member of the working class. Of course, this became clear later on. In the beginning, we did not know what was happening, but later on, it became clear that this was orchestrated by the West and that westerners helped this happen. The difference between those events and today's regional revolutions is that the latter is the exact opposite of the former in the sense that what is happening in our region is against the wishes of America.
Of course, there are confusing analyses about these revolutions which you and I are aware of. Some people think that America is behind what happened in Egypt and Libya. They think that it is America which is managing these events, but this is not the case. These are illusions. Although it is true that the Americans did not dislike the idea of replacing an element like Mubarak with a democratic and popular element who would be as obedient as Mubarak - this was better for them - it was and is not possible for America to play a role in these events. If there is a democratic and patriotic personality, he does not provide America with the resources of his country. If there is such a personality, he will not adopt a pro-Zionist position. Therefore, this was not possible. 
The notion that the Americans pushed Mubarak aside and replaced him with another person in order to enhance their tarnished reputation is sheer illusion. If it had been the Americans who managed these events, they would not have allowed Mubarak to face such a terrible situation - because this would have been to their disadvantage - and they would not have allowed the people of Egypt to take to the streets. 
When people take to the streets, can they be forced to go home? As they say - this expression is offensive and I did not want to say it - can the genie be forced to go back inside the lamp? This is not possible. If they had been able to do something at will, they would have done it in a different way, as they did in some countries. 
For example, in the beginning, they helped a seemingly democratic government come to power in Iran. Another example is that they launched land reform program during the time of taghut. They can adopt such measures through which they can manage affairs. But they cannot orchestrate a fundamental and deep event such as making people - including lower classes - be present on the scene, enter the arena, and chant slogans. They cannot make youth be a source of inspiration for their leaders. 
As you witnessed the events of Tahrir Square in Egypt, intellectual and political personalities and thinkers came after the people and they followed the people. It was not they who brought the people to the arena. On the contrary, it was the people who brought them. Why was this movement launched at this point in time? This has certain reasons. Sometimes, different factors combine and emerge somewhere and this cannot be stopped anymore.
The same is true of our own Revolution. Some people used to say that our Revolution is an American and English Revolution. I do not know whether you remember those days or not. Some people used to say that the great Islamic Revolution was staged by the American and the English. They used to say it was they who carried out this Revolution. Well, it became clear that this was not true.
Of course, there is no doubt that those active diplomatic organizations in the entire world which are headed by America - this country is very active in the arena of diplomacy, as it is active in other arenas - try to ride this wave. They are trying to do this, but they should not be allowed to succeed. They want to ride this wave, but it is unlikely for them to succeed. Therefore, they are retreating. 
On the issue of Mubarak, the President of America adopted several contradictory positions within 10, 20 days. Once he supported him and once he rejected him. After that, he supported him again and then he rejected him again. They did not know what was happening. Therefore, these delusional thoughts should be dispelled.
We should see the realities of the scene. A great movement has been launched. This movement is a popular movement and it signifies awakening. This movement has an Islamic tint. This does not mean that all those people who are present on the scene believe in Islamic rule and that those who believe in Islamic rule accept our model of Islamic rule. This is not the case. Such analyses are weak and such ideas cannot be entertained. But this movement is a public movement and it relies on people. After all people in such countries are Muslims even those who are nationalists and patriots and those who are members of non-Islamic parties.
Westerners said that today, Islamists will take charge if a revolution is conducted in any Middle Eastern country. This was a correct analysis that they themselves presented. The same conditions exist today and it will be the same for a very long time. We should adopt such an outlook towards these issues. 
The events which have taken place in Europe as a result of economic problems require a long discussion. These events are important and unique. We do not know any other such event. In western countries - from America to the heart of advanced countries in Europe - people chant slogans and take to the streets in an enthusiastic way. This is happening in a continous manner and these events are peerless. We do not know any event which is similar to this one in the region's history.
Diplomacy should be based on this. The Islamic Republic has new ideas. These new ideas are about people and divine values. These two things should combine and form movements and societies. This is what we want to say. Spiritual and divine values should be accompanied by the will of people, not imposed on people. This is the new idea that the Islamic Republic is presenting. This can be seen in the word "Islamic Republic". We are both republican and Islamic. This should be illustrated and you have an opportunity to carry out this task and to move forward in this arena.
As for the issues which were pointed out in this meeting - that is to say, general and cyber diplomacy - efforts and activities should be pursued by adopting this outlook and following this goal [of paying attention to the people and divine values]. You should know that things will move forward in this way. If we think that establishing spiritual values as the main standard will make diplomacy reach a dead end, this is wrong. It will not reach a dead end. By preserving these values and persisting in them, we can enter the arena of diplomacy, be active, make great efforts, establish reason and make the other sides accept our positions gradually. 
When we spoke about the issue of dignity, wisdom and expediency, this is the meaning of wisdom. Wisdom means being able to make the other side get close to our positions in a wise way. Dignity, wisdom and expediency do not contradict one another. Rather, they complete one another. Our measures should be directed towards national interests and they should be accompanied by national and identity-based dignity. 
The spirit of surrendering and accepting oppression should not exist either in our hearts or in our actions. This is possible with wisdom. Starting bitter disputes and speaking in an angry way may sometimes be useful, but this is not the general method. The general method is wisdom. Wisdom means entering the area of diplomacy in a reasonable and sensible way. If we move forward like this - by Allah's favor - our achievements will never stop. 
Well, we have made many achievements in the arena of domestic affairs as well. When we take a look at all sectors, we see that we are moving forward. Of course, we have certain shortcomings and the enemy can focus on our weak points in any area. Without a doubt, this is true. Inside the country, we have certain weaknesses in the area of economy, morality and other different areas. There is no doubt about this. What is important is that we want to remove these weaknesses. What is important is that these weaknesses are far less than what our enemies want to show. They want to magnify these weaknesses and cover up our strong points this way.
We will pray for you. We pray that, by Allah's favor, you can be successful and move forward in these arenas. I hope that Allah the Exalted will help you play a real and deep role in a world which, in my opinion, is being shaped in the present time. As I said, it is not still clear what is happening. We cannot clearly say what is happening. We should vigilantly pursue the events which will take place in the future. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
