
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to Disabled War Veterans"/>
It was a very good idea to arrange this meeting. First of all, honoring war veterans who have been severely disabled is a great thing to do, not just because it makes a number of our dearest people happy, but because it also clearly shows the examples and symbols of self-sacrifice in society. And today our society really needs these symbols. 
Sometimes one has faith in a concept and that is good, but other times the concept that one believes in appears, in a corporal form in front of one's eyes. Before the victory of the Islamic Revolution and during the time of taghut, we had heard the word "jihad". We knew the ahkaam concerning jihad. We had read about resistance against the enemy and about self-sacrifice and we used to tell the people about these concepts all the time. But the concepts were not really tangible to us. This is very different from seeing jihad and self-sacrifice with one's own eyes, which is what we did. 
Today when disabled war veterans are publicly honored in society, it means we have brought out the genuine examples of self-sacrifice. This is very important. Therefore, we need to honor them. The Islamic Republic needs this. Apart from these things, honoring disabled war veterans is a kind of gratitude to these selfless people and their families. Therefore, arranging this ceremony was a very good idea. By Allah's favor, this will be repeated every year and thinking and talented people will sit down together and think about ways perfecting this ceremony.
Of course we cannot express our gratitude to you who have laid down your lives, health and wellbeing for the sake of the Revolution and Islam. It is really a futile attempt for people like me to thank you. You made a deal with God and we should really tell you, "Rejoice then in the bargain which you have made." [The Holy Quran, 9: 111]
I would just honor the ladies who take care of paralyzed husbands in order to provide them with comfort and make it possible for them to easily continue their life. I sincerely thank these honorable ladies from the bottom of my heart. These ladies should know that their sincere services to their disabled husband are one of the greatest examples of self-sacrifice and jihad and that their services will be greatly rewarded by Allah the Exalted. We all need such divine rewards. There will be a time when we will feel helpless. There will be day when we feel we have not done enough good deeds to face God and His calculations. The services that you render will be useful then. 
Allah the Exalted will take account of every moment of patience that you have exercised over the past 25, 30 years since the time you were disabled. Nothing is ignored in divine calculations. Even an hour of pain and sadness for the sake of God will be recorded. These things cannot be described in words. Except for God and His agents, nobody can understand your feelings. Basically, your feelings cannot even be expressed. But Allah the Exalted knows, understands and records how you feel. Once everything is recorded, by Allah's favor, you will receive the reward. Do not take these moments for granted.
This is how you should consider your situation. After being in darkness for a while, one becomes more sensitive to light. It is these sufferings that can make you witness God up close. This is important. In any case, God willing Allah the Exalted will reward you.
Another point in this regard is that our country, the Islamic Republic and the Iranian nation made a great achievement. It is really impossible to describe in words the event that took place in Iran and changed the course of history. Thirty years have passed since the Revolution. After three hundred years, people will realize what a great turning point has taken place in the history of the Islamic Ummah and even the history of mankind. A great event has taken place. We have seen and experienced only a small part of it. 
Well, the great achievement that the Iranian nation accomplished under the leadership of our magnanimous Imam - that divine and heavenly man - came at a price. It was a great achievement and the price was also heavy. These things are part of the price we have to pay. Our great nation lost a number of people. They were martyred. Some people like you were severely disabled and some others were disabled a little less seriously than you were. These things are part of the price that the Iranian nation has to pay for that great achievement. 
Of course my personal judgment is that the achievement of the war veterans whose spinal cord has been broken at the neck - people who are suffering from the same condition as you - and those who have suffered serious disabilities is more important than those who have been martyred. This is because martyrdom happens only once and after a person is martyred, he achieves transcendence. Judging by what I know at this point, it appears to me that your condition and self-sacrifice is heavier than the kind of self-sacrifice which is known as martyrdom. This is because of the sufferings and hardships that it causes for you, your parents, your relatives, your wife and your children. These things are among substantial contributions to the achievement that our nation has made. I hope Allah the Exalted will make your reward equally substantial. 
Of course I would add that you can play a significant role in increasing or decreasing this divine reward. The ayah which was recited in this meeting points to the same issue: "(As for) those who responded (at Uhud) to the call of Allah and the Messenger after the wound had befallen them, those among them who do good (to others) and guard (against evil) shall have a great reward." [The Holy Quran, 3: 172] Those who were wounded will receive a great reward, provided that they do good deeds and guard against evil. Human beings are never deprived of the ability to exercise free will. That is to say, you exercise free will all the time. You are the one who chooses. This patience and steadfastness and this ihtisab keep increasing your reward until the end. Ihtisab means addressing God and saying, "Dear God, I laid down my body, my wellbeing and my youth for Your cause and I am satisfied with my situation now." This is the most important factor that influences transcendence to high positions and acquisition of divine rewards.
I think I should stop now. My speech is becoming too long. I would like to thank the ladies again and apologize to them because I could not greet them one by one the way I greeted the dear disabled war veterans. I express my respect to the ladies from here. I wish success and divine approval for all of you.
I praised you and you deserve to be praised. However, you should not take these ladies for granted. They are divine blessings. May God protect all of you. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
