
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech at Graduation Ceremony of Police University"/>
I would like to express my congratulations to the dear graduates of this university - who are prepared to enter the arena of taking action and carrying out responsibilities - and to the dear youth who have received their epaulets today and who are ready to enter the arena of acquiring knowledge, carrying out responsibilities and accomplishing great feats. Thanks to the presence of you dear youth in this scientific arena, this ceremony is one of the sweetest and most wished-for ceremonies for us.
The programs which were performed - such as the good military maneuver - and the discipline of the forces are praiseworthy. This dynamism and discipline in carrying out ordinary tasks can be a sign of the existence of mental and psychological order and discipline and this is the main factor in taking the right course of action and the straight path. I hope that it will continue to be like this.
Today, what I want to say to you dear youth is the significance of the Police Force and what you are doing. The significance of the Police Force stems from the significance of societal security. We should attach as much significance to the providers of security - one of the most prominent examples of these providers is the Police Force - as we do to the security of a people and a country. What you do is very important. The security of a country - whether social security or psychological and moral security - is one of the main bases of progress and honor for a country. The worst disaster that can befall a people who are developing and growing is compromising security. When security does not exist, systematic thoughts and consequently, systematic actions will not exist either. In such circumstances, progress will not be possible. Besides, security is a fundamental need for human beings: "Who provides them with food against hunger and with security against fear" [The Holy Quran, 106: 4]. Allah the Exalted shows off these things to the addressees of this ayah as two great divine blessings: saving people from hunger and from insecurity. These issues indicate the significance of security. 
Besides these things, one of the tasks that the arrogant and satanic force in the world - which is a great danger for independent countries in the present time - carefully pursues when it confronts other countries is to create insecurity, whether social or moral, spiritual and psychological insecurity. It has been proved that arrogant politicians promote drugs in countries which they hate and they do this with behind-the-scenes plots. The same is true of promoting decadence and weakening faith and moral bases in different societies. All these things increase the significance of protecting security. You have shouldered this great duty and you are entering this arena. So, you should appreciate its value.
Today, those in the Police Force who are trying to provide tranquility and security for the citizens of our country are mujahids in the way of God in the true sense of the word. This is very valuable. This important position and this great title requires that you protect, as much as you can, your job against different detriments. This has been and still is our permanent advice to the Police Force.
The Police Force is both the manifestation of the power of the system and order that wants to ensure and provide the security of the country and the manifestation of affection, sympathy and kindness to all the people. These two things should be considered together during the different educational levels that are specified for trainees and cadets in different divisions. This should be taught to all the personnel of the Police Force so that it becomes a well-established culture in this organization.
You want to be a source of support for the people's psychological tranquility and peace of mind. The people should both feel your power and strength and your kindness, sympathy, trustworthiness and affection towards themselves. You youth have the talent to accomplish great feats. Today, our Police Force is significantly different from its past and from what it was in previous decades and it has made many achievements. You should know that more achievements are ahead of you. Open arenas are in front of you. You can conquer these arenas with knowledge, experience, research and thinking and by utilizing all the talents and resources that Allah the Exalted has given you.
The honorable trainers and instructors, the esteemed commanders, each and every one of the personnel and you students and graduates are all addressed by these statements. I hope that God will make you successful. The honor and dignity of dear, leading and Islamic Iran is dependent on the firm determination and willpower of our youth and outstanding personalities. Thankfully today, this can be witnessed throughout the country. The world is witnessing it as well. By Allah's favor, it will improve on a daily basis.
I ask Allah the Exalted to bestow His blessings on you, to make the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) answer your prayers and to make the immaculate soul of Imam (r.a.) and the pure souls of martyrs satisfied with you.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

