<meta year="1999" title="Leader's Statements at Sharif University of Technology"/>
Ayatollah Khamenei stressed that the university is characterized by two special features: its outstanding scientific achievements and its remarkable revolutionary and religious record.
The Leader reminded the audience that, with the victory of the Islamic Revolution, a great many students of the university undertook different responsibilities in the newly established revolutionary organs such as the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps and the Construction Jihad Department, and that they were also engaged in various political activities.
He added that many of these students achieved martyrdom in the course of the eight-year Iraqi imposed war against the Islamic Republic.
"The message of the Islamic Revolution was properly received by this university, namely by both the students and the lecturers, instructors and professors of this university," the Leader pointed out.
Praising the scientific achievements of the talented students of Sharif University of Technology in different international competitions and Olympiads, Ayatollah Khamenei emphasized that these students also have firm religious beliefs and are engaged in different cultural and religious activities.
"The great success of these devout students in world contests, such as their ranking first in the international mathematics Olympiads, proves that those who are claiming that religion and science are not compatible with each other are quite wrong and mistaken," he pointed out.
The Leader of the Islamic Revolution also referred to what is called the student movement, stressing that this movement requires vigilance, political awareness and a great sense of responsibility on the part of students.
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say that some special features characterize the student movement. He stated that with these features, the student movement would be a great and valuable asset to the country and the nation.
As regards the characteristics of the student movement in Iran both before and after the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the Leader stated that the first remarkable feature of the student movement in Iran is adhering to lofty ideals and goals and making every endeavor to accomplish these objectives.
"The second quality of the Iranian student movement is its sincerity, truthfulness and honesty," the Leader noted. "All the students, especially members of the student movement, should try to preserve this valuable quality," he stressed.
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say:
"Among other outstanding features of the student movement is its independence and its unwillingness to get involved in party politics or factional disputes. In other words, the movement is not in favor of having any certain factional leanings or affiliations.
"The student movement is also characterized by its opposition to oppression and tyranny, injustice, discrimination, deception and hypocrisy and by its logical and rational, rather than purely emotional, approach to different issues."
Elsewhere in his remarks, Leader of the Islamic Republic stated:
"The point that should be taken into consideration is that the student movement, like any other movement, may be affected by certain maladies. One of these maladies is that some political groups with self-serving goals may try to exploit the student movement and manipulate it in such a way as to achieve their own political objectives and further their own interests.
"Thus, students should be very cautious and try to avoid falling into the trap of these groups and factions, which only pursue factional, rather than national, interests and whose only intention is to attain political power.
"If students get entangled in the trap of these political entities, they will become devoid of their valuable qualities. In particular, they will become deprived of their independent thinking and attitude and their broad-mindedness."
Ayatollah Khamenei further noted:
"The second malady that may affect the student movement is the dilution of its lofty ideals. The student movement has always been characterized by its pursuit of justice, equity, spiritual salvation, social liberty, national dignity and prestige at the international level. The student movement is still expected to seek these ideals as before.
"For instance, when the issue of social justice is raised in the country, the student movement is expected to make use of its intellectual and other resources and take firm steps to accomplish this worthy cause.
"Thus, turning one's back on these ideals and allowing them to become diluted and sink into oblivion is another malady that may affect the student movement."
The Leader also stated:
"Besides, another major hindrance to the progress of the student movement is shallowness and superficiality. My dear ones! You should not deal with different issues in a superficial manner, namely in a manner which is marked by a lack of deep and serious thinking.
"A student is usually characterized by profound thinking, contemplation and scrutiny. Thus, you should scrutinize and ponder over whatever you hear. This is what is expected from intellectual, wise and vigilant individuals.
"In general, proper decisions are made and right conclusions are reached through profound thinking, logical reasoning and contemplation. Dealing with issues superficially will often result in confusion and lead to improper decisions and wrong conclusions."
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say:
"The enemies of the Islamic Revolution are trying to undermine the valuable qualities that are possessed by our students, especially their sense of contemplation and pondering over issues. The reason is that superficial individuals will easily be exploited and manipulated by the enemies.
"Therefore, lack of profound thinking, scrutiny and contemplation is a major drawback to the student movement, as it makes the movement prone to the enemies' manipulation and exploitation."
In conclusion, the Leader called on students to carefully read and ponder on the Nahj-ul-Balaghah. He described the book as a beacon of guidance which imparts wisdom, knowledge and awareness to mankind, and which guides man to prosperity and eternal salvation.
Ayatollah Khamenei emphasized that it is necessary for students to get further familiar with the Nahj-ul-Balaghah and enlightening words of the Commander of the Faithful, Imam Ali (peace and greetings be upon him).
