
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to Judiciary Officials"/>
First  of all, I would like to welcome the dear brothers and sisters, the  honorable families of those who were martyred by the Haft-e Tir bombing  [the bombing of the headquarters of the Islamic Republican Party on 28  June 1981] and the employees, officials and honorable judges of the  judiciary. I would also like to thank Ayatollah Amoli Larijani, the  esteemed head of the judiciary who mentioned many points in his  well-prepared report and informed the people of the praiseworthy  measures taken by the judiciary. I pray to Allah the Exalted to bestow  His blessings on Ayatollah Larijani and his colleagues and to help them  on this bright and auspicious path. Thankfully Ayatollah Larijani has  distinguished himself in scholarly work, innovation, dynamism and  motivation and has firm determination, so this is what is expected of  him. I hope Allah the Exalted will accept these services from all of  you.
I would like to make a few points about the  Haft-e Tir event and a few points about the judiciary. The Haft-e Tir  event was a real tragedy. It was indeed a shocking and bitter blow to  the country and the system. This tragic event happened at the heart of  the country's management system, killing prominent figures such as  Shahid Ayatollah Beheshti and other political and scholarly figures from  the judiciary, the Majlis and the administration. It was indeed  difficult. However, there is a point that has been tangible throughout  history: whenever a nation, a group of people or a person has exercised  patience and shown insight in the face of hardship, that hardship has  turned into a blessing for them. This is the secret behind the victory  and promotion of the truth and the propagation of monotheism throughout  history. Divine prophets and in some cases the nations which were ruled  by them tolerated all those hardships, so the names of these prophets  should have been wiped off history. Their ideas and their path should  have been wiped off in the course of bitter events of history. But you  see that the opposite has happened. That is to say, the message of  divine prophets has become more popular among people of the world with  the passage of time. The secret is the point that I mentioned: patience  and insight in the face of hardships.
Our people  demonstrated this art in the case of the Haft-e Tir event. Instead of  losing hope and self-confidence, instead of being intimidated by the  enemy and surrendering to him and instead of showing signs of weakness,  our people exercised patience and resisted because of the insight they  enjoyed and because of the insight that our magnanimous Imam used to  instill into our people. They managed to turn the wave against the  enemy.
I heard the news related to the Haft-e Tir  bombing later on. I was unconscious for a few days after the bombing,  but when I heard what had happened and how the people had reacted to it,  I was truly surprised like an outside observer. Our people should  preserve this spirit. We should preserve this as a lesson - a lesson  that we practiced, a lesson that went down in history. 
A  nation like the Iranian nation that has entered the arena with such a  lofty goal - namely, achieving Islamic values and practicing and  promoting Islamic principles in society - would inevitably face many  such events. After all, you are acting according to a religion that is  opposed to oppression, coercion and giving in to the bullying of the  enemy. Islam is not indifferent even when other people are being bullied  in the world. Who would stand up against such a movement? Global  bullies, global oppressors, colonialists, international autocrats and  oppressive and violent dictators would all deploy their forces against  such a movement. They have money, media outlets, political power and  propaganda machines, so they can create problems for you. It is  necessary to stand up against them. Our nation has emerged successful  out of this trial.
In terms of power, progress and  different kinds of capabilities, and in terms of international prestige  and the ability to spark hope among other nations, today the Islamic  Republic is very different from 28th of June, 1981. This is because of  the resistance of our honorable nation. Therefore, we should keep in  mind the principle that the Haft-e Tir event taught us: whenever a  hardship is imposed on us and we face it with patience, resistance and  insight, then that hardship turns into a ladder for our transcendence  and a tool for our progress. And this was what happened, and by Allah's  favor, the situation will be the same in the future as well.
I  would say that the judiciary needs two things in order to be  successful. In any government and in any society, the judiciary is the  organization that settles disagreements and helps justice prevail over  oppression, transgression, corruption and other such things. The  judiciary needs two things in order to be able to achieve this high  goal: one is power and authority, and the other is trust. That is to  say, the judiciary needs to be powerful and trustworthy among the  people. These are two requirements for the judiciary. It is possible for  the judiciary to gain power through human and technical  infrastructures. The esteemed head of the judiciary elaborated on the  advances that have been made in this regard, and I have been informed to  a large extent about the measures that have been taken so far. The  judiciary can gain power and authority by increasing its internal  strength and by training and employing qualified, knowledgeable,  trustworthy and honest people. This authority can be created by passing  appropriate legislation, by arranging appropriate supervision and by  utilizing different technical and organizational advances throughout the  world. I have repeatedly said that we are not ashamed of learning from  other people. We are ready to learn from any nation, any country and any  judiciary system in the world with a strong point. 
Of  course we will not blindly follow the methods and recommendations of  different people. This is wrong. It is wrong to act in a certain way  just because it is the norm in the world. "And if you obey most of those  in the earth, they will lead you astray from Allah's way: they follow  only conjecture and they only lie." [The Holy Quran, 6: 116] We will not  imitate the methods applied by other people. It is wrong to conclude  that we should act in a certain way just because westerns, easterners or  certain countries act in that way. No, this is wrong. We will act on  the basis of our own judgment. That is to say, when we see that there is  something in the judiciary system of a remote country - big or small -  that has facilitated that country's judiciary procedures and has  produced fruitful results, and when we judge their actions as  appropriate for ourselves, then we will adopt the same actions. This is  not imitation: this is acting according to logic, and it is good. These  things will bring about authority for the judiciary. Efforts and  constant innovation bring about power. We cannot afford to sit idly by  and watch the world go by. The officials of the judiciary should look  for the weaknesses and problems, and they should eliminate them through  innovation. And people with superior and prominent intellect can help.  Thankfully, there are such people who work for the judiciary, and the  judiciary should make use of such people even if they do not work for  the judiciary. Technical infrastructures should be developed. Human  infrastructures should be developed. This can bring about power and  authority for the judiciary, making it a powerful and authoritative  organization that has the capability to move towards its goals. This is  the first pillar of the judiciary.
The second  pillar - which is public trust - will be possible through administration  of justice and careful and wise implementation of the law. It is  necessary to build public trust. When the people see that the judiciary  keeps its promise of administering justice, they will trust it. Even  those who are convicted will agree in their heart that the judiciary has  done the right thing. They may complain about the verdict, but they  will accept it in their heart. In this way, the judiciary will be able  to build trust among the people, and this trust is necessary.
Justice  is very important. If we want justice to be a widespread and constant  current within the judiciary, it is necessary to institutionalize piety  and impartiality in the judiciary in the case of big and small issues  that are referred to the judiciary: everybody who works for the  judiciary should observe piety and impartiality, regardless of the  importance of their position. This is an essential point. In this way,  it will be possible to build trust. 
One of the  things that works against public trust is creating doubts about a  certain branch of the government - be it the judiciary, the executive  branch or the legislative branch. A bad habit has developed. Of course  this is not new: it has always been the case. But due to the spread and  availability of communication tools, this problem is more visible today.  This bad habit is the tendency to question official reports. For  example, when the judiciary presents a report, certain people question  the accuracy of the report. They create a doubt. Similarly when the  executive branch presents a report, there is always somebody who  questions the accuracy of the report. They create doubts. The same is  true about the legislative branch. It is not right to trample on the  efforts of an active organization because of a baseless doubt. This is  wrong. Of course it is not possible to stop those who do not have  control over their tongues, but our government officials should be  careful. The media outlets that feel responsible should be careful. They  should take care not to question the reports of our prominent officials  without any reason. This applies to all the three branches of the  government. Questioning the efforts that have been made would make these  efforts ineffective. These days the statistics presented by the  executive branch are being questioned. The statements and statistics of  the judiciary are being questioned. The positive actions of the  legislative branch are being questioned. Such actions would destroy  public trust. As the readers of these reports, we should think  critically about the reports, but we should also give them the benefit  of the doubt. Of course in certain cases a wrong statistic may be  presented on purpose, but we must not generalize from that single  instance and create doubts. Such things would destroy public trust in  our governmental organizations. Our government officials should pay  attention to this point. Therefore, this public trust is very important.
Regarding  the judiciary, its performance and the feedback it receives, there is  another issue that should be taken into consideration. This issue was  pointed out by the esteemed head of the judiciary as well. The judiciary  is faced with the accused. When somebody is accused of something, the  judiciary is responsible to investigate the issue through the channels  that have been specified by the law, and it should determine whether the  accusation is false or not. Being accused of a crime is not the same as  being convicted of a crime. Everybody may face an accusation. As long  as a crime is not proven through legal channels, nobody has the right to  disgrace a Muslim inside or outside the judiciary, from official  podiums and minbars or in the mass media. This is a very important  issue. Sometimes the judiciary is pressured to expose certain people.  No, there is no need to expose anybody. In certain cases holy sharia has  specifically demanded that the people see the punishment or the person  who is punished. But these are exceptional cases. It is necessary to be  particularly cautious when there is a tendency in society to generalize  from particular instances. Definitely as long as a crime has not been  proven, nobody should be identified by name. As long as it has not been  proven that somebody has committed a crime, it is also necessary to  avoid leveling allegations against him. This is because when you accuse  somebody, public opinion would not distinguish between a person who has  only been accused and a person who has been convicted. Why is it  necessary to identify a person by name even after he has been convicted?  As I said, there are exceptions in this regard. "And let a party of  believers witness their punishment." [The Holy Quran, 24: 2] There are a  few cases in which the convict should be identified by name. For  example, even if a person has committed a crime and he has been  convicted in a court of law and sentenced to prison, why is it necessary  to identify him by name in newspapers and make his child feel ashamed  to go to school as a result? What is wrong with letting him serve his  sentence in prison and then start a normal life with his family? After  all, he has been punished for his crime. Is it necessary to disgrace  him? This is an essential point.
Of course I am  not addressing this point to the judiciary only. I am addressing it to  government officials inside or outside the judiciary and our media. On  the one hand, it is necessary to avoid questioning the performance of  the judiciary. It is wrong to accuse the judiciary of having ulterior  motives whenever it takes a particular action. On the other hand, just  because a person has been accused does not mean he should be identified  by name or the accusation should be made public. How would this action  benefit public opinion? What is the use of letting the people know that a  particular person has committed an offense? It is necessary to pay  attention to these points.
As I said, piety is the  factor that will guarantee all of these things. Piety requires that we  watch our words, actions, orientations and behavior. Even the most  insignificant thing that we do is recorded by divine agents. "He who has  done an atom's weight of good shall see it, and he who has done an  atom's weight of evil shall see it." [The Holy Quran, 99: 7-8] Our words  and actions are all recorded, and we will be held accountable for them.  Everybody will have to answer for his words and actions on Judgment  Day. Piety requires that we pay attention to this point and watch our  words and actions.
Thankfully since the beginning  of the Revolution up until today, the judiciary has taken a step forward  during each and every term. There has been valuable progress during  each term. Thankfully today the advances that are made in the judiciary  and the measures that are adopted are indeed promising. It is enjoyable  to see this dynamism, this determination, this spirit of innovation and  this hope among judiciary officials. Our judiciary officials are moving  forward, and by Allah's favor, their movement is a wise and innovative  movement. These things promise a good future.
I  hope Allah the Exalted will accept these services from all of you. I  hope God will make all of you benefit from the prayers of the Imam of  the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake). I hope He will make  the holy heart of the Imam of the Age (a.s.) satisfied with you. May God  make the immaculate souls of our martyrs and the holy soul of our  magnanimous Imam satisfied with all of us. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
