
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech on the Occasion of Imam Khomeini's 22nd Demise Anniversary"/>
All  praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings  upon the Holy Prophet, the most noble descendant of Adam, our Master  and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem Al-Mustafa Muhammad, and upon his immaculate  and infallible household, especially the one remaining with Allah on  earth.
God's greetings and mercy be upon the  immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam and the martyrs of the Islamic  Revolution. Today the Iranian nation commemorates the demise anniversary  of our magnanimous Imam once again with the aim of following his path  and his school of thought. Each year the 14th of Khordad provides us  with an opportunity to introduce a new dimension of the Imam's pure life  and his sacred and auspicious path. This year the 14th of Khordad has  coincided with the first day of the holy month of Rajab. Rajab is the  month of divine mercy and blessings. The Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.)  has been quoted as saying, "O Allah, make the months of Rajab and  Sha'ban blessed for us." Rajab and Sha'ban are the months that lead  faithful Muslims to the holy month of Ramadan. 
This  year the demise anniversary of the Imam has coincided with another  important event as well. This important event is Islamic Awakening, the  event that our magnanimous Imam used to wait and wish for, and he had  predicted that it was going to happen. Our magnanimous Imam had  predicted the wave of awakening among Muslim nations. By Allah's favor,  his prediction was fulfilled, just as he had predicted the collapse of  the Soviet Union, and Allah the Exalted helped his prediction come true.  
Today I will divide my speech into two parts,  and I hope I will be able to finish the two parts in a short time. The  first part is a review of the lesson that our magnanimous Imam taught  us. It is a review of the Imam's timeless school of thought, and this  school of thought is an asset for our nation. Relying on this asset, the  Iranian nation has managed to overcome the hurdles that are natural for  any nation with such ideals. In the second part of my speech, I will  briefly discuss regional issues.
Regarding the  Imam's school of thought, the honorable Iranian nation is fully aware  that the respect and love of the Iranian people for our honorable Imam  is not just an ordinary emotion. Although hearts are overflowing with  the love for the Imam as far as emotions are concerned, the issue is not  limited to these emotions. Rather, the respect that our people have for  our magnanimous Imam means that they have accepted his school of  thought as the bright path for the entire Iranian nation. The Imam's  school of thought is theoretical and practical guidance that will help  our country achieve dignity, progress and justice. Practically this has  been the case throughout the past 32 years. That is to say, whenever we  had the opportunity to practice the recommendations of the Imam and  whenever we could follow the path shown by the Imam, we benefitted a  lot. This is how the people consider the path of the Imam and his  timeless legacy. During the past 30 years, our nation has managed to  stand up against the most complex plots. The Iranian nation was faced  with military, security, propaganda, political and economic plots. On  the economic front, the Iranian nation has been faced with different  kinds of sanctions during the past 30 years. As far as negative  propaganda is concerned, the huge media and propaganda empire has been  working hard against the Iranian nation. Thanks to the Imam's path and  his school of thought, the Iranian nation has managed to stand up  against these plots.
The Imam's school of thought  is a complete package with different dimensions. It is necessary to  consider all these dimensions together. Two of the main dimensions of  the Imam's school of thought were the spiritual and the rational  dimensions. As far as the spiritual dimension is concerned, our  magnanimous Imam did not just rely on material factors and  manifestations to continue his path. His hope in Allah the Exalted was  inexhaustible. Regarding the rational dimension, using wisdom and  rational calculations are important in the Imam's school of thought. I  will briefly discuss each of these dimensions.
There  is also a third dimension - namely, justice - which is the result of  Islam, just like the other two dimensions. The Imam's rationality  originated from Islam, and his spirituality were Islamic and Quranic.  Similarly the third dimension originated from Islam and the Holy Quran.  It is necessary to consider these dimensions together. Stressing one of  these dimensions at the cost of ignoring other dimensions would derail  our society. These dimensions and this complete package are the  intellectual and spiritual legacy of the Imam. Our magnanimous Imam used  to pay attention to both the rational dimension and the spiritual  dimension. He also used to pay careful attention to the dimension of  justice.
I would like to discuss a few  manifestations of the Imam's rationality. The first manifestation was  that he chose democracy as the political system of the country. That is  to say, he chose to rely on the votes of the people. Choosing democracy  was one of the clear manifestations of rationality in the Imam's  inspirational and revitalizing school of thought. Dictatorial  governments had ruled our country for many years. Even during the time  of the Constitutional movement when the law seemed to have been  institutionalized in the country, in practice the autocracy of the  Pahlavi era was more severe and more oppressive than the previous  dictatorships. In a country with such a historical background, our  magnanimous Imam found the opportunity to turn voting and the presence  of the people into an institutionalized reality. Our people had not  experienced free elections except in a short period of time during the  early years of the Constitutional movement. In such a country and in  such an atmosphere, our magnanimous Imam took the first step and  institutionalized elections in the country. You have heard several times  that 32 or 33 elections have been held in the country during the past  32 years. The people have decided to go to the ballot boxes and vote.  They have freely voted to elect MPs, presidents, members of the Assembly  of Experts, members of city councils and other such organizations. This  is the most outstanding manifestation of the Imam's rationality.
The  Imam's firmness and lack of flexibility against the aggressive enemy  was another manifestation of his rationality and his reliance on wisdom.  The Imam did not trust the enemy. After he got to know the enemies of  the Iranian nation and the Revolution well, he stood up against them  like a mountain. Certain people think that rationality requires backing  down against the enemy on occasion, but the Imam had the opposite idea  and he moved in the opposite direction. The rationality and wisdom of  this divine man helped him conclude that even the slightest flexibility  and compromise against the enemy would result in the enemy's further  transgression. In a battlefield, your enemy does not feel sorry when you  retreat. Every small retreat against the enemies means that the enemy  will take a step forward and spread his domination. This was one of the  manifestations of the Imam's rationality.
Another  manifestation of the Imam's rationality was that he infused the spirit  of self-confidence and self-sufficiency into the Iranian nation. Since  the beginning of the domination of westerners over our country - that is  to say, since the early 19th century when westerners came to Iran -  they used to constantly humiliate the Iranian nation over many years by  presenting different analyses with the help of their agents. They used  to make the Iranian nation believe that it was incapable of scientific  endeavor and scientific progress. They used to convince the Iranian  people that they were incapable of standing on their own feet. The heads  of the Pahlavi regime and the regimes that preceded it used to  constantly humiliate the Iranian nation. They used to pretend that if  there was any possibility of progress and great achievements, westerners  had to step in. They used to pretend that the Iranian nation did not  have the potential to do these things. Our magnanimous Imam infused the  spirit of self-confidence into such a nation, and this became a turning  point for the Iranian nation. Today our youth, our industrialists, our  scientists, our politicians and our clergy feel that they can do  whatever they want. "We can" was the slogan that our magnanimous Imam  instilled into the heart of our nation. This was one of the important  manifestations of the Imam's rationality.  
Another  manifestation of the Imam's rationality was his emphasis on preparing  the Constitution. The Imam ordered Iranian experts to prepare the  Constitution. Those who prepared the Constitution had been elected by  the people. The Imam did not choose a group of people to draw up the  Constitution. It was the Iranian people who chose them. The people  relied on their own judgment to elect certain experts, and those experts  drew up the Constitution. Later on the Imam decided to put the  Constitution to the vote again. He arranged a referendum so that the  people could vote for or against the Constitution. This was one of the  manifestations of the Imam's rationality. This was how the Imam  strengthened the foundations of the Islamic system. In terms of legal  aspects, in terms of politics, in terms of social activities and in  terms of scientific progress, our magnanimous Imam established a firm  foundation which could form the basis of a great Islamic civilization. 
Another  manifestation of the Imam's rationality was that he convinced the  people that the country belongs to them. He convinced the people that  the country has an owner. During the time of autocratic governments,  they used to promote the idea that the country had an owner, and the  dictators ruling the country were what they meant by the "owner". The  Imam convinced the people that the country has an owner and that the  people are the owners.
The primary manifestation  of the Imam's spirituality was his religious devotion. The Imam used to  do everything for the sake of God. Since the beginning, he used to do  whatever he thought was his divine responsibility. He did not spare any  sacrifices on this path. This was how he acted since the beginning of  the revolutionary activities in the year 1341. He used to move forward  with the aim of carrying out his religious obligations. He repeatedly  told our people and government officials that what is important is to  carry out one's religious responsibilities. We only do our obligations:  it is God who determines the outcome of our efforts. Therefore, the  Imam's devotion was the manifestation of spirituality in his behavior.  He never said or did anything in order to be praised. Allah the Exalted  blessed whatever he did for the sake of God, and the effect of his  actions became permanent. This is the characteristic of religious  devotion. The Imam used to repeat the same recommendation in his  meetings with government officials of the country. He used to advise us  to rely on God. He used to advise us to trust God and to make effort for  the sake of God. He himself used to rely on God. He used to engage in  supplication and worship. He used to ask God for assistance. One could  clearly feel the spirituality emanating from the Imam after the month of  Ramadan had ended. He used to make use of every opportunity to get  closer to Allah the Exalted and to purify his immaculate heart and soul.  He used to advise others to do the same thing. He used to say, "We are  present before God." The world is being watched by Allah the Exalted.
The  world is full of divine manifestations. The Imam used to advise  everybody to keep this point in mind. He himself used to observe moral  principles, and he used to advise other people to do the same thing. An  important part of spirituality in Islam consists of morality, avoidance  of sins, avoidance of slander, avoidance of suspicion, avoidance of  backbiting, avoidance of spite and avoidance of separating hearts from  one another. Our magnanimous Imam used to observe these things, and he  used to advise the people and government officials to do the same thing.  The Imam used to advise us against becoming arrogant. He used to advise  us against considering ourselves superior to the people. He used to  advise us against considering ourselves flawless and above criticism.  All high-ranking officials of the country had heard the Imam telling  them to be ready and to welcome criticism. All high-ranking government  officials had heard him advising them to avoid considering themselves  flawless and above criticism. The Imam himself used to act like this. In  his writings and his statements, especially at the end of his holy  life, His Eminence admitted on several occasions that he had made a  mistake in certain cases. He admitted that he was wrong in certain  cases. This requires a great character. One needs a great soul to be  able to say such things and to admit that one has made a mistake. This  was a manifestation of the Imam's spirituality and ethical principles.  This is one of the important dimensions of the lesson that the Imam  taught us.  
The dimension of justice is also very  important in the Imam's school of thought. Although in a sense justice  originates from rationality and spirituality, the prominence of justice  from the Imam's perspective makes justice especially outstanding. Since  the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the Imam used to emphasize the  needs of underprivileged social classes in his statements. He used to  emphatically advise our government officials to cater to the needs of  underprivileged social classes. He used to emphatically advise our  government officials to avoid aristocratic lifestyles. This was one of  the most important recommendations of our magnanimous Imam. We must not  forget these things. In a government which relies on the votes and  religious faith of the people, a serious problem will occur if the  officials start to think about their own welfare, if they start to think  of accumulating wealth for themselves, if they do everything to satisfy  their aristocratic passions. This is a very serious problem for such a  government. The Imam completely avoided this problem, and he used to  repeatedly advise our government officials to avoid developing a  tendency towards aristocratic lifestyles and accumulating wealth. He  used to advise our government officials to develop a close relationship  with the people. The Imam wanted government officials like myself to  have a close relationship with the people. 
The  Imam used to stress that facilities and services had to be available in  every part of the country. He used to stress that services had to be  made available to the people living in remote places. These things point  to the justice of our magnanimous Imam. He used to stress that  government officials had to be elected from among the people. He used to  stress that government officials had to be from among the people and  that being well-connected was not a good criterion for appointing people  to different positions. The prevalent favoritism during the time of  Qajar and Pahlavi dynasties had made the Imam sensitive to this issue.  Sometimes he used to praise certain government officials by saying, "He  is from among the people." This was the standard for the Imam. He  believed that taking wealth and power into consideration when appointing  people to different positions was one of the greatest threats to the  country and to the Revolution. These are the dimensions of the path of  the Imam.
Dear brothers and sisters, dear people  of Iran, the Imam's school of thought has helped us through great  dangers during the past 32 years. The Imam's school of thought has  improved our national dignity and international honor. The country has  made progress and moved towards the ideals thanks to the efforts to  tread the path of the Imam. We must observe the principles promoted by  the Imam, but we must also take all aspects into consideration. If a  person or a movement turns away from Islamic and revolutionary values in  the name of rationality, there will be a deviation. Giving up piety and  making us dependent on the enemy in the name of rationality is an  instance of deviation and treachery. The kind of rationality that we  find in our magnanimous Imam's school of thought requires us not to turn  a blind eye to the enemy's plots. It requires us not to trust the enemy  and to avoid backing down against it. The more we back down against the  enemy, the more we will lose the great spiritual support inside the  country.
Similarly, if we trample on ethics in the  name of justice and revolutionary sentiments, we will suffer from the  consequences and we will have deviated from the path of the Imam. If, in  the name of justice and revolutionary sentiments, we insult or  persecute our brothers, faithful people and those who are opposed to us  on an intellectual level but are believed to have faith in the essence  of the system and Islam, we will have deviated from the path of the  Imam. If we deprive a portion of our society and our country of security  in the name of revolutionary sentiments and revolutionary behavior, we  will have deviated from the path of the Imam. There are different  opinions in the country. If an action or a statement qualifies as a  crime, it is possible to take legal action. The organizations in charge  are responsible to follow up this action or statement, and this is what  they do. But if the action or statement does not qualify as a crime and  if there is somebody who has no intention of overthrowing the  government, or committing treachery and carrying out the order of the  enemy but is opposed to our political taste, we cannot deprive him of  security and justice. "Be upright for Allah, bearers of witness with  justice, and let not hatred of a people incite you not to act equitably.  Act equitably: that is nearer to piety." [The Holy Quran, 5: 8] The  Holy Quran orders us not to deprive a group of people of justice simply  because we are opposed to them. "Act equitably." The Holy Quran teaches  us to observe justice even in the case of our opponents. "That is nearer  to piety." The Holy Quran tells us that justice is nearer to piety. It  is wrong to think that piety requires that we trample on the rights of  our opponents. No, observing justice is in line with piety. All of us  should be vigilant. All of us should be careful. The dimension of  justice should not overshadow the other dimensions.
The  same is true of the spiritual dimension. Thankfully we love reliance on  God, spirituality, remembrance of God and worship. The general  atmosphere of our society is full of attention to God. The month of  Ramadan is a beautiful month in our country. It is the spring of  spirituality. Our dear youth are so enthusiastic about dhikr, worship,  reliance on God and reciting the Holy Quran that one cannot help  enjoying their enthusiasm. The itikaf ceremonies that our youth will  arrange in a few days are also amazing. 
In my  youth, during certain days of the month of Rajab on which itikaf  ceremonies are traditionally held, only about 10 to 20 seminarians used  to take part in itikaf ceremonies, and this was Qom Islamic Seminary,  the center of all Islamic seminaries. Itikaf was not very common at that  time, and people did not know about it. Today in different universities  throughout the country, thousands of young students - both girls and  boys - take part in itikaf ceremonies. They worship God for three days,  and they establish a relationship with Allah the Exalted. Itikaf  ceremonies are even more impressive in big mosques. These are  manifestations of spirituality. Our people love spirituality, but our  spirituality is accompanied by the sense of responsibility. This  spirituality must not at all distance us from our great revolutionary  responsibility, rather it should help us continue our revolutionary  movement. Those who try to distance our society and our youth from  politics by relying on piety, those who try to prevent our youth from  playing an active role in the country in the name of piety - these  people are making a mistake. They are suffering from a deviation. These  dimensions go hand in hand.
I hereby testify at  the holy shrine of the Imam and the shrines of the martyrs who have been  buried in this spiritual place - in Behesht-e Zahra - that our nation  has moved well on this path and that it has preserved the path of the  Imam. I see with my own eyes and I can testify that today our  revolutionary youth are as good as - if not better than - the youth of  the early revolutionary era in terms of faith, piety and firmness of  belief. I testify from the bottom of my heart and I sincerely believe  that the people have played the most important role and that they have  preserved and protected the values. It was the people who foiled the  plots of our enemies.
I do not want to go into the  details in this regard. There is not enough time for this, and maybe  this is not a good time for such a detailed discussion. But I would like  to mention in passing that our enemies thought the demise of the Imam  would trigger the collapse of this holy system. They thought that the  departure of the Imam would gradually put out the fire of the  Revolution. They thought that this light would dim over time. But later  on they were disappointed by the sentiments that were expressed during  the Imam's funeral ceremony and by the impressive popular movement in  support of the decision by the Assembly of Experts. They prepared  ten-year plans. Of course this is my personal analysis, and it is not  based on hard evidence. It is an analysis that is supported by certain  pieces of evidence. They were hoping that their plans would produce  results in ten years. When those events happened in the year 1378, it  was the people who stepped in and foiled the plots behind those events.  On the 23rd of Tir, 1378, the people took to the streets and foiled the  enemies' plots in one day, plots which had taken years for the enemy to  design. After that day, a second wave started, which continued into the  year 1388. This new wave consisted of another set of ten-year plans.  They believed that they would find an opportunity. They believed that  they had prepared the way for this opportunity. 
The  people had certain demands - people who were relying on the system and  were loyal to it. The enemies started to think that they could make use  of these demands. Therefore, they gave rise to those events in the year  1388. They created turbulence in Tehran for two-three months. Of course  it was only in Tehran. For two-three months, they managed to keep hearts  and minds busy with their activities. The people stepped into the arena  once again. After the enemies' masks were removed, the people realized  what they really wanted on Quds Day. On the Day of Ashura, the people  realized the depth of their plans, so they stepped into the arena and  gave rise to that epic on the 9th of Dey. Millions of people took to the  streets - not just in Tehran but throughout the entire country - on the  9th of Dey and on the 22nd of Bahman and put an end to the turbulence.  This is the art of our people. Praise be upon the people of Iran. Praise  be upon the faithful, resistant, insightful and vigilant people of  Iran. By Allah's favor, the people of Iran would pursue this path and  ideal with this determination until the end.
Fortunately  this impressive movement by the people has produced its own results.  Thanks to the confidence that the people showed in their government  officials and thanks to the security that has been established  throughout the country due to the presence of the people, our government  officials have managed to expand the scope of their services and make  great achievements. As a result, great infrastructural accomplishments  were made in the country, and infrastructural work is the requirement  for any country's progress. Today such infrastructural achievements are  being made one after the other. The people can see that these  achievements are being made in the country, and by Allah's favor, they  will see the results in the short and long term. Thanks to the security  which has been established due to the presence of the people, the  security plots of the enemies will be foiled. The propaganda plots of  the enemies will be foiled. It is because of this public presence that  our country has achieved a high level of scientific and technological  progress. According to international reports and according to the  international figures which have been officially announced, today the  rate of our scientific progress is 11 to 12 times more than the average  rate of global progress in science. This is not a small achievement.  This achievement is acknowledged even by our opponents, and our enemies  announce it officially. Today our young scientists have made such  progress in more than 10 important scientific and technological fields  that our country is considered among the top 10 countries in the world  in those areas. These achievements have been accomplished thanks to the  presence of the people. If this public presence, this mutual trust and  this general sense of responsibility continue, our country will achieve  further progress. This is the path of the Imam.
Now  I would like to make a few comments about the regional issues. First of  all, the events that have happened in North Africa and in our region  are very important and historic. The events that happened in Egypt and  in Tunisia and the impressive awakening that has happened in Islamic  countries are among the kind of events that would take two, three  centuries to happen. They are among crucial, significant and historic  events. Of course the Egyptian nation was successful, and the Tunisians  were also successful. The Egyptian Revolution was a particularly  brilliant victory. It was an impressive development. In certain other  countries such as Libya, Yemen and Bahrain, the people are fighting, and  the situation of each of these countries should be analyzed in a  particular way. The popular movements in those countries will definitely  succeed as well. It is just a matter of time before they achieve a  victory. When the people awaken and when a nation feels that it has the  capability to do what it wants, nothing can stop them. Of course the  enemies of Muslim nations - namely, the order of domination, the Great  Satan and the oppressive and brutal Zionists - are making efforts. They  are planning to prevent people from achieving ultimate victory in the  real sense of the word. But if we Muslim nations remain vigilant, if we  listen to Quranic recommendations - which call us to patience and  steadfastness and which give us hope- if we do not doubt Allah the  Exalted, if we remain hopeful about divine promises and make efforts in  that direction, Muslim nations will undoubtedly achieve victory.  
 
Of  course in Libya, the policy of western governments is to weaken Libya.  Their policy is to let the civil war continue until Libya loses all its  power so that they can, directly or indirectly, take the affairs of that  strategic country into their own hands later on. First of all, Libya  has massive oil resources. Second, it is very close to Europe.  Therefore, Libya is very important to America and to the arrogant  countries in Western Europe. They do not want to give up the control of  this country easily. They want to weaken Libya. If they had let the  people fight on their own, they could have succeeded. If a populist  Islamic government came to power, it would pose a threat to them.  Therefore, they are planning to prevent this from happening.
The  situation of Yemen is similar to the situation of Libya. From a  geopolitical perspective, Yemen is an important country. Yemen is a very  important country in that it is a neighbor of the countries which have  good relations with America. The do not want to let the people of Yemen  achieve ultimate victory. The policy of the US and the west is to  prevent the people of Yemen and Libya from achieving ultimate victory.
The  people of Bahrain are living under absolute oppression. Under the  pretext that the majority of the people of Bahrain are Shia Muslims,  they want to present the popular movement as a tribal and sectarian  movement, but this is not the case. Of course the people of Bahrain are  Shia, and they have been Shia throughout their history. The majority of  the Bahrainis are Shia. But the issue is not a Shia-Sunni issue. The  issue is that the Bahraini nation is under oppression. The issue is that  the people of Bahrain are being deprived of their civil rights on their  own soil. They are demanding their rights. They are demanding their  right to vote. They say they want to have the right to vote and to be  able to play a role in electing their government. This is not a crime.  This is a legitimate demand. This is while the lying, hypocritical and  deceitful Americans, who claim to support human rights and democracy,  step in like that to suppress the people of Bahrain. Of course they deny  this and say that they are not involved in the issue and that it is the  Saudis who are doing these things. But the Saudis could not have  entered Bahrain and given rise to those bitter and bloody events there  without a green light from America. Therefore, the Americans are  responsible as well. 
Now I would like to mention a  few more points. There is not much time left. The first point is that  the popular movements in these countries have three main  characteristics: being Islamic, being anti-America and anti-Zionist and  being popular. The movements in all these countries share these three  characteristics. The Egyptian nation is an exemplary nation in the Arab  world and in the world of Islam. It was the Egyptian nation that started  this wave. The Egyptians gave rise to a revolution in their country, a  revolution which is Islamic, popular and openly anti-America and  anti-Zionist. The same is true of the other countries. 
Our  position on these popular movements is clear: wherever there is a  movement that is Islamic, popular and anti-America, we will support it.  But if we notice that a movement has been instigated by the Americans  and the Zionists, we will not support that movement. Wherever America  and the Zionists step in to overthrow a regime and occupy a country, we  will move in the opposite direction of the Americans. America cannot  think or act in favor of the interests of the regional nations. Whatever  it does and whatever it has done so far have been against the nations  of this region. This is our position.
The second  point is that the countries which achieved victory - especially Egypt,  which is a big country with a rich Islamic, spiritual and cultural  background - must be cautious. They must take care not to allow the  enemy that escaped through the door to go back in through the window.  The aid that is reportedly provided by America for Egypt or any other  country is itself a source of trouble. It is through such aid and such  dollars that the Americans establish their domination over other  countries and impose their demands on them. They use these things to  spread their oppressive domination over nations that have achieved  freedom. 
Everybody must remain vigilant. Of  course the Egyptian nation is vigilant. The impressive movement that the  Egyptian nation carried out to protest against the position of the  former Egyptian regime on the issue of Palestine, Gaza and the Rafah  crossing was a very valuable movement. It is necessary to continue this  movement. Egypt plays a significant role in the Arab world. It was due  to this significance that Egypt was targeted by those who wanted to  bring Arab countries to their knees against the Zionist regime. They  imposed the disgraceful Camp David Accords starting with Egypt. It was  only after Egypt had accepted the Camp David Accords that other Arab  countries gradually surrendered to America's will. The issue of  Palestine was totally wiped off the scene of Arab decision-making. They  must be careful. They are very sensitive about Egypt. Westerners and the  arrogant powers retuned to Egypt only one day after the era of Gamal  Abdel Nasser, who had forced them out of Egypt. This experience must not  be repeated in Egypt. The Egyptian people are vigilant, and I hope  Allah the Exalted will help them in this regard.
The  next point is that such suppression is useless. After all, when nations  awaken and come to know their power, they will follow this path. By  Allah's favor, the movement of the regional nations - both the countries  that are currently involved in this movement and the countries that  have the potential for such a movement - will achieve ultimate victory.  The people of these countries will achieve ultimate victory, but they  must watch out for the divisive activities of the enemies. Today in  North Africa, in Egypt, in Tunisia and in other Islamic countries, the  enemies are after fomenting discord. In particular, they want to create a  rift between Islamic Iran and other countries because Islamic Iran is  the center of the movement against the arrogant powers. They want to  create an ethnic and sectarian gap between Islamic Iran and other  countries. They even want to create discord inside those countries.  Today in Egypt, there are certain people affiliated with takfiri,  Wahhabi and other such groups who are trying to foment discord among the  Egyptians under different pretexts. It is necessary to be vigilant  against these divisive efforts.
Our position on  the issue of Palestine is also clear. We believe that all Palestinian  lands belong to the Palestinians. Those who tried to wipe Palestine off  the map of the world made a mistake. Such a thing will not happen.  Palestine will survive. The usurpers have occupied Palestine for a few  decades, but there is no doubt that Palestinian lands will be restored  to the people of Palestine and to the world of Islam. And this will  happen. The people of Palestine are vigilant. Palestine cannot be  partitioned. Palestine belongs to the Palestinians entirely. The Islamic  Republic presented the solution to the Palestinian issue several years  ago. The solution to the issue of Palestine is not the kind of solutions  that America and other such countries present. Such solutions will  prove ineffective. The solution is to hold a referendum among the people  of Palestine. Any government that receives the majority of the votes in  the referendum will rule the entire Palestinian lands. Then that  government will decide what to do with the Zionists who immigrated to  Palestine. And this depends on the decision of the government that will  be elected by the people of Palestine. 
Dear God,  bestow Your blessings on Muslim nations - on the Egyptian nation, on the  Tunisian nation, on the Libyan nation, on the Yemeni nation, on the  Bahraini nation and on the oppressed Palestinian nation - and help them  achieve ultimate victory. Dear God, increase Your blessings for the  honorable Iranian nation on a daily basis. Dear God, bestow the highest  positions on the immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam and the  immaculate souls of our martyrs. Dear God, make us benefit from the  prayers of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his  sake).
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

