
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech at Imam Hussein Military Academy"/>
I  would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to you dear youth who  have achieved these accomplishments at a young age. I would like to  extend my congratulations both to the graduates of this prestigious  university and to the youth who received their epaulettes today and will  start their training officially. I pray to Allah the Exalted to bestow  success on you.   
Today's ceremony was beautiful,  impressive and significant. Of course this is what is expected of the  dear cadets and those who have been put to the test in the battlefields  of jihad in the way of God. I hope God will increase your  accomplishments on a daily basis. 
The Islamic  Revolution's Guards Corps was established in the most sensitive and  complex conditions in the history of this country, and it was not easy  to establish it. This holy organization has been entrusted with  difficult responsibilities since its establishment. During the early  days, the assets of the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps were nothing  but faith, motivation and revolutionary enthusiasm. Of course the young  members had different qualifications. They were from universities and  military centers, and they had qualifications. But they completely  lacked experience and were not at all equipped for that difficult arena.  Their valuable assets were their faith, their revolutionary enthusiasm,  their preparedness for selfless efforts and their willingness to lay  down their lives for their goals. And they were successful. Shortly  after it had been established, the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps had  to engage in serious confrontations. The faithful and young members  were faced with real battlefields in different parts of the country and  in Tehran. The first war games of the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps  were real battles. They really had to lay down their lives and enter the  battlefields, and this was what they did. 
Thanks  to the revolutionary enthusiasm, all the other requirements were  achieved later on. They gained experience. The spirit of innovation  started to develop. They learnt whatever they needed. There was  enthusiasm for knowledge. They learnt whatever they needed to learn.  They used their innovation to develop whatever they needed for their  spiritual and material battle, and they had a brilliant performance in  the battlefields. They were successful both in the battle against the  aggressive enemy and in revolutionary jihad in the highly confusing  context of our society at that time.  
Dear youth,  the sincere and devoted men who created the foundations of the Islamic  Revolution's Guards Corps were like this. Thanks to the presence of such  men, the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps managed to establish and  consolidate its roots as an active and innovative organization capable  of training the workforce required by other organizations. During the  past 32 years, thanks to the firm foundations that had been built by  faithful men, the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps was present in  different arenas. It had a brilliant performance and played a  significant role in the revolutionary and progressive movement of our  society. Of course certain members of the Islamic Revolution's Guards  Corps were martyred, and many others stayed alive and continued playing  their role. However, our national issues and our need for innovative,  enthusiastic and insightful manpower are increasing on a daily basis.  The foundation of the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps, which is being  renovated on a daily basis, should be formed in such academies and such  training centers in interaction with different events. Today you are the  foundation of the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps. You are the future  of the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps. You are the auspicious  foundation that will support this firm structure in the future after  facing different trials. Prepare yourselves for this important and  difficult mission.  
If the foundations of an  organization are not firm and healthy, the structure which will be built  on those foundations will not be reliable. The reliable structure of  the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps was formed during these years  thanks to the faith and selfless efforts of the men who built the  foundation of the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps. Allah the Exalted  helped them in this process, and battlefields of the Sacred Defense Era  put them to the test. The presence of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) and  his blessed words were the beacon of guidance. Therefore, they managed  to accomplish this mission in an appropriate way. And today you should  prepare yourselves to build that future. 
I would  like to tell you that with the progress of our society, with the  advancement of science and technology in the world and with the natural  evolution of man the duty that you should carry out today has grown far  more important and complex and much more subtle than the duty that your  predecessors had to carry out 30 years ago, and you need to be more  careful, more capable and more innovative in order to carry out your  duty. Just as our Revolution and the government that was born of it are  far more advanced compared to 30 years ago, so the men in charge of this  government and the selfless and innovative people who work for this  government should be equally sophisticated. They should be far more  knowledgeable, far more pure-hearted, far more courageous and far more  insightful than our glorious past. And this is how they are.
I  would like to tell you that today our faithful and insightful youth are  more sophisticated than the youth of the early revolutionary era  because of the experience that our nation has gained during its historic  movement. During the early years of the Revolution, those who laid down  their lives for the Revolution used to rely on their faith in a bright  future, but today's youth have already achieved the future that the  youth of the early years of the Revolution were striving towards. 
Allah  the Exalted kept His promise to our nation. Allah the Exalted has  promised to help us if we make efforts in a faithful way. "If Allah  assists you, then there is none that can overcome you." [The Holy Quran,  3: 160] When God helps you, no power will be capable of overcoming you.  This is a divine promise. Today our nation and our youth can clearly  see that this promise has been fulfilled. 
The  dominant military, financial, propaganda and political empire - namely,  the Great Satan, America - made use of all its facilities against the  Islamic Republic and the Revolution, and it was sure that it would  manage to bring the Revolution to its knees. Take a look at the world  and see what has happened today after the passage of 30 years. It is the  Americans who have been brought to their knees. The extremely sensitive  and important Middle East policy of America has failed completely.  Everybody can see this, and everybody acknowledges this fact. They were  defeated in Palestine. They lost their mercenaries and close allies. One  day they had only lost the satanic and corrupt Pahlavi regime, but  today they have lost or are losing other regimes. Therefore, their  situation is precarious. Today America has been isolated in the western  part of Asia - in North Africa and in the Middle East. Today Islam is  alive in these areas. Today the youth enter the arena with Islamic  slogans. Thirty or forty years ago, if somebody wanted to speak about  nationalistic and revolutionary sentiments in North African countries,  he had to resort to leftist slogans. Today such things have been thrown  away. Such slogans have been thrown into the trash can. Today Islam and  the Quran are very common and play a determining role. Is this a small  achievement? The same thing happened when the Islamic Revolution  achieved victory and the Islamic Republic raised the flag of Islam and  the Quran in the region: they started to shake with fear. They thought a  similar event would take place, so they tried to prevent it. But this  has happened today despite their will. Today our youth can see this for  themselves.
When the mother of Moses cast him into  the river, Allah the Exalted made two promises to her. God said,  "Suckle him and when you fear for him, then cast him into the river and  fear not nor grieve." [The Holy Quran, 28: 7] God promised to return  Moses to his mother and to appoint him a prophet. After a short period  of time, the child was returned to his mother. God says, "So We gave him  back to his mother so that her eye might be refreshed and that she  might not grieve and that she might know that the promise of Allah is  true." [The Holy Quran, 28: 13] God had made two promises: one was to  return Moses to his mother. So God told the mother of Moses, "Know that  the promise of Allah is true." God told her that Moses was the prophet  who would come and overthrow the Pharaoh. Allah the Exalted fulfilled  His first promise to the mother of Moses in a short time so that she  would have faith in the fulfillment of the second promise.
The  promise that Allah the Exalted has fulfilled in the case of the Iranian  nation is far more important than the promise He fulfilled in the case  of the mother of Moses. Who would have thought the Palestinian youth  would be courageous enough to unite, shout slogans and attack the brutal  and oppressive Zionist forces in the name of Islam? This has already  happened. Two weeks ago on Nakba Day, the Palestinian youth broke  through the borders of Israel for the first time in sixty years. These  are examples of "the promise of Allah is true." This shows the truth of  the divine promise: "That He might cause it to prevail over all  religions." [The Holy Quran, 9: 33] Allah the Exalted will cause this  prophetic mission to prevail over all intellectual and religious  products of the world. Allah the Exalted is fulfilling this promise. The  only condition is that as pioneering soldiers of this movement in the  contemporary era, you and I must remain steadfast and take care not to  be distracted.
The great and unpardonable sin of  those who looked back or catered to their passions and their thirst for  power during the great revolutionary movement of the Iranian nation, the  great sin of those who forgot why the nation had carried out a  Revolution and those who forgot the meaning of the movement is that they  failed to remain steadfast. Of course our nation did not follow them  and it never will. But all of us must be cautious. Nobody should give up  in the course of this great, accelerated and progressive movement  during which Allah the Exalted has shown us the signs of victory one  after the other.
Dear youth, you are among the  prominent people who are involved in this pioneering movement. You  should prepare yourselves. You need knowledge, so try to acquire it. You  need self-purification, so try to purify your soul. If we fail to  purify our soul, alluring manifestations of the material world will keep  us busy. When those who are treading a path forget the goals, when rest  stops prevent travelers from moving towards their destination, a great  danger would threaten them. Be careful. Knowledge, self-purification,  experience and discipline in military environments are very important.  The effect of discipline that is rooted in spiritual motives would  definitely be more than imposed and superficial kinds of discipline.  Fortunately different organizations affiliated to our Armed Forces - the  Army, the Islamic Revolution's Guards Corps, the Police Force, the  Basij - enjoy this spiritual asset today. Today young members of our  Armed Forces think about the significance of things, and this is a great  opportunity that promises a bright future.
Dear  God, make these honorable youth genuine soldiers of Islam and the Holy  Quran. Dear God, make them successful in continuing this path and make  them benefit from the prayers of the Imam of the Age (a.s.). 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
