
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to MPs"/>
Dear  brothers and sisters, welcome. I hope Allah the Exalted will reward you  for every moment of your determined efforts and your sense of  responsibility. I hope Allah the Exalted will bestow increasing  blessings on you dear brothers and sisters.
I  would like to thank Mr. Larijani [the Speaker of the Majlis] for  presenting that good report and for acting as your representative and  expressing the parliament's clear and transparent positions against the  arrogant powers, against America and against greedy international  figures who talk nonsense against the Islamic Republic. Of course what  he said is what our people want to say as well. We should be thankful to  Allah the Exalted for helping our nation preserve and even increase its  accurate and clear insight into political groupings of the world and  their goals over the past three decades. It is a fact that one of the  problems of nations is the lack of this awareness or the failure to  acquire this awareness, which harms them in global developments and in  different events and which makes them prone to mistakes in the case of  political dilemmas. If the reality of the major political and economic  groupings of the world were clarified for the nations of the world and  if they thought about these groupings in a conscious way and kept the  goals of different groups in mind, the sword of the arrogant powers  would become blunt. The main goal of the widespread propaganda -  broadcast through the media and propaganda tools that are at the service  of the policies of the arrogant powers - is to create confusion so that  nations cannot gain or preserve this awareness and this insight. Our  nation has preserved this insight, and we should be very thankful for  this. 
I would also like to thank the honorable  members of the parliament for expressing these positions clearly until  today, and by Allah's favor, they will continue acting like this until  the end of their term. It would have been a serious disappointment for  the country and for the Revolution if the Majlis had made a mistake in  one of these important political developments, failing to adopt a  position or adopting the wrong position. We should be grateful to the  Majlis and we should be proud of it for standing firm and for adopting  clear and unambiguous positions in the case of different political  developments and during the enemies' attacks against the Islamic  Republic. I express my heartfelt gratitude to the Majlis, and I insist  that these positions should be continued in a firm way. This is because  the conflict between the Islamic Revolution and global arrogance is a  continued and ongoing conflict. Of course, by Allah's favor, this  conflict will not continue until the end of time. The Islamic Republic  is becoming stronger with the passage of time. The attacks will  gradually decrease the day the enemies feel disappointed, but until that  day it is necessary for the nation and its prominent figures to resist.  It is necessary to continue this resistance. The subtlety with which  the Revolution treats the enemy must not be ignored. Today we should see  what plot the enemy has designed for the Revolution. In other words, we  should try to guess the enemy's scenario and see what it is looking  for. If we manage to make accurate guesses and plan our response to the  enemy's scenario, the enemy will definitely be defeated.
All  the proofs show that today the enemy has focused on a few essential  areas. The economic area is the most obvious example. This is why I  named this year as "The Year of Economic Jihad". One of the essential  things that they are trying to do is to bring the economy of our country  to its knees and to push the country backward in the economic arena so  that they can cripple our economy and disappoint the people. This is  obvious. Even they themselves are saying these things. This provides  clear guidelines for the Majlis, for the administration and for each and  every government official working in different sectors. 
Another  obvious example is their efforts to foment discord among the  organizations in charge of managing the country. This is one of the  essential goals that they are pursuing, and they do not even try to hide  it. This does not mean that they do not want to hide this goal: it is  just that the goal is impossible to hide. The way the enemies act in  important, large-scale and global issues requires that they do certain  things and make certain comments. Therefore, the plans and policies of  the enemies cannot be kept a secret. They want to foment discord, and  they do so in whatever way they can. We must be vigilant. Differences of  taste and differences of political opinion must not result in a  conflict among different political groups and elements of the country.  If we adopt an optimistic perspective on the post-election events and  say that the seditionists only had certain doubts, their great sin was  that they turned their doubts into a challenge for the Islamic system.  This great sin cannot be ignored, and the effects of this sin still  exist in our society. Of course the Iranian nation is a vigilant nation.  The level of insight that the Iranian nation enjoys offsets many  effects of such events. But these people tried to deal a blow. Creating  conflict and fomenting deep discord is a very bad thing. It is very  serious and reprehensible. It is exactly what the enemy wants.
You  should play your role in the Majlis in this regard. This issue has  nothing to do with the political sympathies and tastes of the MPs. These  political tastes make no difference in this case. It is a matter of  defending the country, the Revolution, Islam and the great achievements  of the Iranian nation. All political groups of the country share these  concerns, except those who are outsiders. Otherwise, these concerns are  shared by all political parties of the country, irrespective of their  political sympathies.
Another obvious example is  to undermine Islamic beliefs and sentiments and to promote sacrilegious  or quasi-sacrilegious ideas in different ways. This is among their  policies. They spend huge amounts of money and make widespread efforts  in order to deploy various propaganda organizations to change the  mentality of our youth. Of course this is not limited to our youth.  Today the same policy is being pursued vehemently in the Arab countries  in which these uprisings and revolutions are taking place. They spent  billions of dollars in order to change the mentality of the youth who  used to gather in certain squares in Cairo or Tunisia and who gave rise  to those great events. These are the events that are happening, not  guesses and analyses: they are facts. Well, the enemy is making efforts.  It is working with all its power. Promoting corruption and immorality  and shaking the beliefs of people: such things are common actions that  the enemy takes. 
The enemy has prepared a  comprehensive and well-thought-out scenario for the Islamic Republic,  the Islamic movement and Islamic Awakening. Fortunately we are capable  of confronting this scenario. There is no doubt in this regard. I say  this decisively: with its firm ideological and philosophical assets -  both potential and actual assets - and with its competent and  enthusiastic manpower, the Islamic Republic is capable of countering  this attack, and it has shown this capability during the past 32 years.  The enemies were not standing idly by over the past 32 years. They have  been thinking and working constantly, and their so-called think-tanks  have been working over these years. They have spent money. They have  prepared many plans. They have employed agents. They have been active.  They did everything they could in diplomatic areas. However, the result  of their actions is that the Islamic Republic has moved forward and they  have moved backward. Of course if it were not for certain moral and  other weaknesses and certain shortcomings that we were suffering from,  we could have made even more progress. After all, we were suffering from  certain problems. But in spite of these shortcomings, we have  obliviously made progress and the enemy has obviously been pushed back.  The America of the Reagan era is radically different from the America of  the Obama era. Similarly the Islamic Republic of 1360 is radically  different from the Islamic Republic of 1390. We have moved forward, and  they have moved backward. Therefore, the Islamic Republic is capable of  countering them, but there is a concern that we might fail to maintain  our vigilance and that we might feel overconfident, both of which are  dangerous. We should neither lose our vigilance, nor should we keep  ourselves busy with secondary issues. We should neither feel  overconfident, nor should we underestimate the enemy and consider him  helpless. We must be vigilant. I am addressing this point to everybody. I  am addressing this point to each and every one of you 290 members of  the Majlis. Each and every one of you has this divine responsibility.  You must be vigilant. The same is true of the administration, the  officials of the judiciary and government officials working in different  sectors of the country. All of us are responsible: members of the  military in one way and civilians in another. But the responsibility of  government officials is clear and often well-defined. All of us are  responsible. This is how we should think of our jobs. All of us are  responsible: me in my own job, you in your own job and other people in  their own jobs. 
We are shouldering a heavy  responsibility. Allah the Exalted has put this heavy responsibility on  our shoulders. We do not have the choice to abandon this responsibility.  No, this is a duty that we must carry out in a powerful and responsible  way. We must always keep this in mind whenever we do something:  whenever we engage in political, intellectual, economic or managerial  work. If we continue working without keeping this point in mind, there  is a danger that our efforts might work against the goals. Then we will  have to deal with divine censure. Allah the Exalted will not forgive  such big sins. Imam Khomeini (r.a.) said the same thing about certain  social, political and other problems. He used to say, "This is a sin  that Allah the Exalted will not forgive because it is not easy to repent  of this sin." God forgives every sin if the sinner repents. But if a  person does something and harms a nation, how can he repent of his sin?  How can he make up for the sin? How can he ask forgiveness of each and  every person who has been harmed? So Allah the Exalted will not forgive  such sins. This is why our jobs are so sensitive.
As  I said, regarding national, regional and global issues, the Majlis and  the administration have fortunately adopted good positions and they have  resisted. Fortunately our government officials have managed to convey  the clear message of the Revolution to the people of the region in spite  of the different kinds of uproar that have engulfed the region. In  spite of the uproar that the enemies caused, the Iranian nation and its  officials managed to clearly express the right and logical words.  Fortunately this has already happened, and it should continue.
After  all, this is a battlefield. In a battlefield people try to harm the  enemy, and they should also expect the enemy to harm them. The enemy  does not stand idly by: he tries to deal a blow as well. In these vast  international arenas, one should consider oneself in the middle of a  battlefield. It is not a time for peace, kindness and other such things.  Even when they say soft things, they hide a dagger behind their soft  words, waiting for a moment of carelessness so that they can sink the  dagger into the heart of their opponent. Therefore, it is necessary to  be vigilant. We must be vigilant. We are already vigilant, and I  recommend and stress that this vigilance must be maintained.
Of  course I would say that it is time for communal piety. As far as  individual piety is concerned, each person should watch his or her  actions. Perfect piety requires that one should constantly watch one's  actions, just like a person who is walking through thorny bushes - and  this is an example which has been used both in Islamic narrations and in  the statements of prominent figures. That is to say, one should always  watch where one is stepping. If you fail to pay attention, the thorns  will damage your clothes and injure your feet. Piety has been likened to  walking through a field with thorny bushes. This is individual piety,  and it is necessary because it is the only way in which people can  achieve success and salvation. If somebody wants to achieve ultimate  salvation, he or she must have piety. The more piety one has, the more  success and salvation one will achieve.
On the  other hand, there is communal piety which requires groups of people to  watch themselves. Lack of communal piety causes even those who have  individual piety in a group to slip and to go where they do not want to  be. We have been harmed for this during the past 30 years. This area is  where we have had weaknesses.
During the past  decades we had a political current in the country which was called  "leftist". They used to shout good slogans, but they failed to watch  themselves and exercise communal piety. There were people among them who  had individual piety, but lack of communal piety ultimately made the  situation so bad that seditionists who were opposed to Imam Hussein  (a.s.), Islam, Imam Khomeini (r.a.) and the Revolution could rely on  them. They did not shout slogans against the Imam or the Revolution, but  those who were shouting slogans against the Imam and the Revolution  finally came to rely on them. This is a very serious danger. They  slipped. Therefore, communal piety is necessary.
Last  year I suggested that you should establish self-regulation mechanisms  in the Majlis. This is an example of communal piety. You should watch  your own organization. Certain criticisms were voiced here and there,  saying that MPs must be free. Nobody disagrees that MPs should have  freedom. It is only deviant behavior that we are opposed to.  MPs with  deviant behavior might tarnish the reputation of the Majlis. Is it not a  pity to see the reputation of such a great legislative organization  become tarnished?
We visited Imam Khomeini (r.a.)  at the beginning of the Revolution to have a prominent figure approved  by the Imam so that we could nominate him as the president of the  Islamic Republic. The Imam did not accept this proposal due to certain  reasons. Then he told us to refer to the Majlis. He told us that the  Majlis is important. The Majlis enjoys such a position from the  perspective of the Leader of the Revolution and the founder of this  system. It is necessary to preserve this position. It is necessary to  preserve the reputation of the Majlis and save its face. This requires  self-regulation. In the absence of self-regulation, we would face  problems, and you can see the consequences already. I made this  suggestion last year. Of course small steps have recently been taken in  the Majlis in this regard, but the importance of this issue was not  properly understood. This self-regulation is communal piety.
There  are different tastes and political tendencies in the Majlis. I do not  at all insist that different political tendencies should come together  and unite as one. No, differences of taste, differences of opinion,  different political opinions are natural. Such differences of opinion  are beneficial in many cases though they may have certain consequences  in certain situations. There is no emphasis on eliminating these  differences. The emphasis is on what I explained earlier: the MPs must  not attack each other, and these differences must not result in personal  hostility and in ignoring America. Unfortunately this is how certain  parties behave in our country. When they are opposed to a certain party,  they tend to forget America, Israel, the opponents of the Revolution  and the enemies of the Imam. Overcoming their opponent becomes their  main concern. This is wrong. Therefore, political parties must not fight  each other like this. Moreover, they must have self-regulation  mechanisms among themselves. They must watch themselves. They must not  let their party be derailed. Otherwise, there is no shortage of good  individuals in these political parties. But when a political group is  derailed, both good and bad members suffer from deviation. These points  are among clear and natural things. I do not want to fully explain such  points to the dear brothers and sisters.
Now I  would like to mention an important point. Because this year is the last  year of your term in the Majlis, take care not to let the upcoming  election - which will be held at the end of this year - make the Majlis  suffer from stagnation and lack of effort over the next ten months.  There is a concern that the focus of the honorable MPs on the election  might overshadow all the things that should happen over the next ten  months. I am asking you not to let this happen. I have advised all  administrations to take care not to give up trying during the last year  of their term. This is more important in the case of the Majlis because  the consequences are more serious. For our administrations, their last  year is the end of their term in office. They cannot do anything to  continue holding office. But this is not the case with our MPs: they can  try to keep their position. These efforts must not overshadow their  current responsibility, which is essential. I seriously demand the  brothers and sisters to pay attention to this point. 
Another  issue is developing a relationship with owners of power and wealth. I  will not stand on ceremony with you in this regard. After all, we are  brothers, and we must call each other to the truth and to benevolence.  It is a big danger to approach owners of power and wealth just to ensure  one's position in the parliament. This is very bad. It is one of the  things that Allah the Exalted will not forgive - one of the things that  will provoke divine revenge. Such things have a negative effect on  society and on people and their destiny. 
The dear  MPs should try to formulate the self-regulation bill - which has been  partially approved by the Majlis - in a way that genuine supervision can  be carried out. That is to say, it must be formulated in a way that  collusion is prevented and the Majlis can really be supervised in proper  way. You must not let standing on ceremony, collusion and other such  things get in the way of this supervision.
Another  point is the advice that I have always repeated: the need to cooperate  with the executive branch. There should be cooperation with the  executive as well as the judiciary branch, but cooperation with the  executive branch is particularly important because the Majlis is  primarily engaged with the executive branch. It is necessary to proceed  in a way that discord and tension are avoided, otherwise this would have  very negative effects on the people. Sometimes it is noticed that a  certain comment is made in the Majlis during a speech. Once you have  said something, it is out of your control. If your comment levels  allegations against a person or a group, it will not be easy to make up  for the consequences. The people will get disappointed. Today our  government officials are working hard. Do not say there is this and that  shortcoming. I am aware of the shortcomings. I may be aware of certain  shortcomings that many people do not know about. In spite of these  shortcomings, the executive branch enjoys a good and favorable structure  today. Good things are being done in the country. It is necessary to  cooperate. It is necessary to help. Both the Majlis and the  administration should help each other. The law has the final say on the  actions of the administration, and the tendencies and judgments of the  administration is a signal to our lawmakers to watch the quality of  their legislation. This issue does not go against independence of the  Majlis.  
I used to be an MP. I also used to be  president. I have experienced both these positions. Over these years I  have observed both our parliaments and our administrations. There is  nothing wrong with formulating an appropriate, effective and logical law  in a way that it becomes easy and practical for the administration to  put the law into practice. If the Majlis passes such laws, it does not  mean that it has lost its independence. There are certain people who  have serious problems with the existence of the Majlis, but the same  people are claiming to care about independence of the Majlis. They say  that the Majlis should have independence. This would not affect  independence of the Majlis. The Majlis should see how it is possible to  formulate laws in a way that implementing these laws becomes easy for  the administration. It is possible to do this, and nothing is wrong with  it. On the other hand, once a law has been formulated and approved, the  administration is responsible to act according to that law with all its  power and without any excuses. This is true of both sides of the issue.  That is to say, the two sides can cooperate and help each other. This  is necessary, and it must be done. It becomes an impossible situation if  the two sides make excuses. If the Majlis refuses to change a  particular law just because the administration insists that it should be  changed, and similarly if the administration refuses to practice a law  just because it has a certain problem, then it will not be possible to  run the country. Leniency and flexibility are good. We have Islamic  narrations in this regard. People should be flexible. It is only the  enemy that one must not be flexible with. One should be flexible with  friends. After all, it is necessary to tolerate. It is necessary to  tolerate each other's flaws.
The parliamentary  election is about ten months from now, and elections are important.  Elections are the flag of the Islamic Republic. Thankfully we have  always held our elections without any delay, much to the disappointment  of the enemies. This is very important. Since the first election in the  year 1358 up until today, we have had 31 or 32 elections, and all of  them were meticulously held on time. During a certain parliamentary  election, they did everything in their power to delay the election, but  they failed. Heads of the branches of the government joined hands to  prevent the parliamentary election from being held on time, but they  failed. They made a lot of efforts. They debated the issue and spoke in  favor of delaying the election. They published newspapers in this  regard. They drew up a petition. They deployed government agents, but by  Allah's favor they failed. By Allah's grace, the situation will be the  same in the future as well. Elections are important. Elections are a  flag of honor for us: they are the symbol of religious democracy. It is  necessary to hold elections in an appropriate way. In spite of all the  bad behaviors from different sides and in different elections, in spite  of all the nagging, in spite of all the premature warnings about  possible vote-rigging and other such things, they have not been able to  prove any of their claims. Thankfully all elections were held in a  transparent and good way. By Allah's favor, the same is true of the  upcoming election as well. Of course there is a long time before the  election, but I would like to advise our government officials to be  careful and to maintain respect for elections. The Majlis, the  administration and the judiciary must all maintain respect for  elections. Nobody is allowed to interfere in elections in one way or  another. It is the people who should act on the basis of their judgment  and determine the result of our elections.
I would  like to add one more point [in response to excessive praise by one of  the MPs present in the meeting]. I was really embarrassed by the  comments of the dear brother who spoke after Mr. Larijani. Although I  know for sure that the comments were out of sincere love, such comments  are harmful both to me and to the person who makes them. It is necessary  to avoid making such comments in this way. We have happened to come  together at this point in time, and we are working together as a team. I  am responsible for one thing, and you are responsible for another. Such  comments are not the kind of comments that would make one feel good or  the kind of comments that would help one move forward. We are all  servants of God, and by Allah's favor we will manage to serve the people  as well.
I hope Allah the Exalted will make all of us benefit from His blessings.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
