
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to Teachers"/>
I  would like to welcome the dear brothers and sisters and the teachers  who have the prominent and sensitive job of educating people across the  country. I would like to take this opportunity to express my greetings  to all the teachers in different parts of the country. And I solemnly  pray to God to make your essential responsibility auspicious for you and  our dear nation. 
We should commemorate our dear  martyr, the prominent teacher of all time, Shahid Motahhari. The fact  that Teachers' Day and the martyrdom anniversary of Shahid Motahhari are  marked on the same day has a symbolic and significant meaning. This is  because Shahid Motahhari was truly a great and prominent man. His life  and his sincere and wise efforts were accompanied by a sense of sympathy  and perfect insight in the arena of knowledge and culture. And Allah  the Exalted rewarded this great man and bestowed martyrdom on him. In  fact by doing this, God kept him alive. "Think not of those who are  slain in Allah's way as dead. Nay, they live, finding their sustenance  in the presence of their Lord." [The Holy Quran, 3: 169] A man who had  graduated from Qom Islamic Seminary and acquired deep knowledge made his  way into the heart of Iran's culture, public education and young  generation and became a source of blessings. 
As I  have pointed out in Islamic seminaries, the scholars and prominent  figures of Islamic seminaries are competent people who can play a role  in the educational system, and no organization is more important than  the educational system. This means that there will always be room for  more material and spiritual investments on the educational system. The  educational system is the heart of our society: both now and in the  future.
Now I would like to speak about your role  as teachers. Teachers are responsible for training people who will run  the country in the not so distant future. Your young students will soon  be responsible for the affairs of our society, no matter at what level  they are. Prominent figures of the future are among your students.  Sincere mujahids of the future are among your students. The competent  people who will manage the economy and culture of this country are among  the children who come to your class. You are responsible for training  them to do their future duties well and bring about progress, not  retrogression and corruption. Notice how important your job is.
As  I said, your influence as a teacher is in certain cases even stronger  than genetic factors. Human beings are born with certain genetic  tendencies, but it is possible to change these tendencies through  practice. And teachers can play a role in this regard and help their  students change their tendencies through practice. That is to say, you  can train individuals who are truly to the level of Islam. You can train  a workforce that is to the level of Islamic Republic. This is the role  that teachers should play. These are not compliments: they are facts. 
One  of the things that is necessary to do is that our people and government  officials, young and old, should appreciate the importance of teachers.  They should appreciate the value of teachers. These things are  essential. The media and government officials should play a role in this  regard. This should not be reduced to ceremonial gestures. It is  necessary to help people realize the importance of the role that a  teacher plays in class - the gentleman or lady who spends his life on  educating our youth and children. Of course teachers should also  understand their role appropriately and appreciate the importance of the  role they play. This is essential. Therefore, teachers and Teachers'  Day are very valuable.
Everybody should pay  attention to this point: the people, government officials and the  Ministry of Education. Everybody has certain responsibilities towards  teachers. Everybody should be committed to these spiritual and material  responsibilities and try to fulfill them. 
Regarding  the issue of transforming the educational system, there is a point  which I have repeatedly mentioned in my meetings with our dear teachers  and the officials in charge of the educational system. I have also  spoken about this issue in my meetings with government officials. Why is  this transformation necessary? After all, it is not wise to transform  something without having a good reason. Why do we want to transform the  educational system? One simple reason is that our educational system has  not proven effective in educating our young generations. The main  reason is that this educational system has been imported from abroad. It  is not rooted in our domestic needs. This is one of our big problems.  Sometimes the experiences of a nation and its historical background help  that nation realize that it should educate people, build houses and  manage the country in a particular way. This is good. One should always  utilize the experiences of other people. 
We do  not hate learning from other people. We do not consider this below our  dignity. But it is a bad idea to import paradigms from other countries  and cultures and practice it in our country without taking domestic  requirements into account. This is what has been happening in our  country since one hundred years ago. Apart from the mercenaries who had  been recruited by intelligence services of foreign governments, there  were well-intentioned people in the country who wanted to help the  country make progress, but they did not know how to do this. They  falsely believed our people should become exactly like foreigners. In  their writings and speeches, they promoted the idea that our people  should become Europeans in every aspect. They made a big mistake. This  affected our educational system in particular. Unfortunately many other  things were affected as well. Our economy, our architecture, our  lifestyle, our culture and many other things were affected as a result  of the misunderstanding or treachery by our political figures during the  time of taghut. Thankfully the Revolution took place and changed the  path. We developed a tendency towards indigenous ideas. However, many of  the initial foundations have remained unchanged, particularly the  educational system. We should definitely use what the world - different  western and eastern nations - has experienced in order to improve our  domestic paradigm. This is why we need a transformation.
This  transformation should take place according to an independent Iranian  paradigm which is rooted in spirituality and domestic needs of the  country. That is to say, the paradigm should in fact originate from the  Islam we believe in. We must develop such a paradigm. The transformation  should be in this direction. What should be the goal of this new  paradigm in the area of education? The goal is to train manpower that is  to the level of the Islamic Republic. If the Islamic Republic wants to  hold up the flag of Islam, if the Islamic Republic wants to achieve  prosperity and improve its situation in this world and the next, there  are certain requirements that have to be met. The Holy Quran teaches us  that it is possible to improve one's situation in this world and in the  hereafter, and this is what we should do. If the Islamic Republic wants  to help other nations - as the Holy Quran says, "You are the best of the  nations raised up for (the benefit of) men" - if the Islamic Republic  wants to be a witness and a bearer of good news for other nations [The  Holy Quran, 33: 45: "O Prophet, surely We have sent you as a witness,  and as a bearer of good news and as a warner."], there are certain  requirements that have to be met. In order to achieve these goals, it is  necessary to train individuals who are honorable, knowledgeable,  talented, innovative, well-behaved and courageous. It is necessary to  train people who can take risks and enter new areas without any sense of  inferiority or superiority. It is necessary to train people who love  Allah the Exalted and depend on His power. It is necessary to train  people who are patient, optimistic and hopeful. Islam has provided all  of these things in a complete package for those who believe in Islam. We  should open this package and benefit from everything that it contains.  The educational system should train such people. Narrow-minded,  pessimistic, hopeless, depressed, impious and corrupt people cannot help  human communities make progress. They cannot help nations achieve  prosperity. Naturally they cannot be role models either. Transforming  the educational system should be in this direction.
All  the things that the honorable Minister spoke about are good. Of course  not all of them are at the same level. Some of them are essential  priorities, and some others are of secondary importance. It is necessary  to do what the honorable Minister spoke about. However, the direction  should be specified in advance. You should know what you want to do. We  should have a comprehensive plan for the transformation. According to  this comprehensive plan, we should satisfy the requirements one after  the other. When you have designed a big building according to a plan,  you know exactly what you should do. When you want to build a huge  building, you always start with a plan. Sometimes you build part of the  building in one place and another part in a different place. When people  take a look at it, they may not be able to predict the final form of  the building. But as a person who is building the structure according to  a plan, you know exactly what you are doing. Everything that you build  is part of the plan you have. This is when you have a comprehensive  plan. If there is no such plan and if this transformation is not based  on a comprehensive outlook, things may work against each other in the  end. You may end up with big gaps and unnecessary overlaps. Therefore,  the first requirement is to have a comprehensive outlook and a  comprehensive plan. 
Teachers are one of the  elements that must be taken into consideration in this comprehensive  plan. Of course good things have been done regarding our textbooks. I  have been informed of certain good things that have been done in the  area of preparing textbooks. Of course it is necessary to do other  things as well and by Allah's favor, these things will be done. However,  it is the teacher who will teach the textbooks. If the teacher is  knowledgeable, caring, reflective and innovative, he or she will make up  for the possible shortcomings in the textbooks. But if the teacher is  incompetent, hopeless and lethargic and teaches just because he or she  has to teach, then it is not clear whether the students will learn  anything good even if the textbooks are good. Therefore, teachers are  important. They are the pivot.
The honorable  Minister referred to the issue of teacher education and in-service  courses for our teachers. These things are very good and necessary. Of  course you dear teachers should show that you have the necessary  characteristics for teaching at schools. In any case, these are our  needs, and it is necessary to take care of them. Governmental  organizations should consider this great and important issue of  education from this perspective. Our future depends on the current  situation of our educational system. Material and spiritual investments  on the educational system will undoubtedly produce high yields, far more  than what we invest. Our country needs a good educational system. Why?  Because the responsibility that it has taken on is a huge  responsibility.
Dear people, we should believe  that the movement which has been initiated by this powerful and  courageous nation under the leadership of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) is  exceptional in the history of mankind, not just in the modern world. A  great achievement was accomplished. As people who are involved in this  movement and are contributing according to our capabilities, we cannot  have a complete evaluation of this great movement. We cannot have an  appropriate evaluation unless we step out of the world we are involved  in and try to evaluate the situation of the world, consider great  international movements, take a look at different political and social  motives that are behind these movements, see the role of the arrogant  powers - the same thing that has been referred to in the Holy Quran, "We  have made in every town the great ones to be its guilty ones, that they  may plan therein" - see the role of destructive policies in dominating  the world for the sake of certain interests. Then one can realize the  greatness of the movement started by the Iranian nation: the movement of  a nation in order to revive Islamic values which represent the best  human values in a world where all elements of power had been deployed  against these Islamic values. It was a great achievement. 
The  Iranian nation entered the arena with all its power and made a great  accomplishment. The Iranian nation achieved victory and established a  government. But it was alone. The Iranian nation made this  accomplishment alone, and it pursued this difficult path on its own. It  did not become tired. It did not get disappointed. It did not get  frustrated. They did not succeed in intimidating this nation. The  Iranian nation moved forward. After the spread of this great movement  throughout the world, today the effects of that accomplishment are  gradually becoming tangible in the world. 
The  wave of awakening is not just happening in North Africa and West Asia.  This wave of awakening will continue into the heart of Europe. There  will come a day when European nations will rise up against their  politicians and leaders who have totally subjugated them to the cultural  and economic policies of America and Zionism. This awakening will  definitely happen. This shows the continuation and depth of the movement  by the Iranian nation. It is a great movement. 
Well,  if we want this movement to continue at this speed and with this  characteristic and become effective, then we should improve ourselves.  We must be like steel. We must strengthen our faith. We must increase  our insight. We must increase our awareness. We must acquire more  knowledge on a daily basis. We must utilize the talents which have been  bestowed on us by Allah the Exalted. We joined hands in unity, and we  must preserve this. These things are necessary. 
Thankfully,  this is how our nation is acting. Our nation is making good progress.  But if you manage to train this progressive young generation in an  appropriate way, this movement will continue with more speed. I assure  you that the Islamic Republic of Iran will manage to conquer the peaks  one after the other thanks to the presence of good, faithful and sincere  people in our country.
May God bestow His  blessings on the pioneers of this path. May God bless our dear martyrs  and proud mujahids. May God bless the soul of our magnanimous Imam  (r.a.) who opened up this path in front of us. May God bless all Iranian  people. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings 
