
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to Laborers"/>
I  would like to welcome the dear brothers and sisters who are active in  the arenas of labor. This is an opportunity for me. Each year I get an  opportunity to sit down with you dear laborers and make a few comments. 
Labor  and the position of laborers are very important issues from Islamic and  rational perspectives. If we consider the issue from a rational  perspective, labor is an essential link in the chain of our vital needs.  That is to say, if a society had all the money in the world but lacked  the element of labor, it would not be possible to address the needs of  the people of that society. What addresses the needs of human beings is  the element of labor. And labor depends on laborers. Therefore, the  capable hands and creative minds of laborers play an obviously important  role in the life of human beings - both their individual life and their  social life. Those who ignore the working class and labor communities  are in fact ignoring this essential role. And the same is true about the  people who think of laborers as an instrument, just like other  instruments. This is the rational perspective, and the logic is totally  sound. 
But the logic of Islam is superior to this  rational perspective. According to Islam, the work that laborers do to  feed themselves and their family is a kind of worship and good deed.  That is to say, the work that laborers do is not limited to this world,  rather Allah the Exalted has attached great importance to the issue of  labor in His comprehensive plan for the life of humanity in this world  and in the hereafter. The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) said, "This hand will  not feel hell fire." When the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) kissed the hand of a  laborer, everybody was surprised. Then the Holy Prophet said, "This  hand will not feel hell fire." That is to say, when we engage in  midnight prayers, recite the Holy Quran and rely on Allah the Exalted,  we are in fact building walls between ourselves and hell fire. And when  we work, we do the same thing. This is a very important point. This is  the Islamic view.
Now let us discuss labor  communities. I will only discuss what is related to our country,  especially what concerns the Revolution and the revolutionary  activities. First of all, our laborers played an important role in  helping the uprising of the Iranian nation achieve victory. If the labor  community - particularly those who worked for the oil industry and  other strategic places - had not stepped in, the Revolution would have  faced serious problems. Afterwards, the Sacred Defense happened. Before  the Sacred Defense Era and during the early years of the Revolution, we  were faced with other issues. Many of you dear youth were not present  then, or you were too young to remember the events. I was witness to  these events. Our laborers and labor community played a role. I was  present in one of the factories close to Tehran on the 22nd and 23rd of  Bahman. I was among the laborers of that factory, and I saw how the  leftist elements of that time - namely, the communists and their  followers - were seeking to start a so-called "labor movement" from  somewhere and turn the Islamic Revolution into a communist and Marxist  revolution. This was what they were doing in Tehran. It was our laborers  who stood up against them. Of course that factory did not have more  than 100 laborers, but they wanted to use that factory as a  stepping-stone. I went there, and the laborers showed a tendency towards  religion. They did not even know me. I was just an ordinary seminarian.  But they realized that the voice of religion was familiar to them and  that the voice of anti-religion elements was unfamiliar. The voice of  anti-religion elements was unacceptable to them. I wish some of those  laborers could tell us about the events that happened during the three  or four days that I used to go to that factory. I used to stay there for  hours. It was an important experience for the country. This was how the  laborers played a role. That is to say, those who wanted to pitch the  labor community against Islam and the Islamic Republic were totally  disappointed by our laborers. This has always been the case over the  past years. Later on the eight-year Sacred Defense happened, and our  laborers participated massively in the war. After the war, our laborers  were present in the arena of labor.
There was an  interesting line in the song performed by the dear brothers: "The arena  of labor is a battlefield for us." This is a fact. Proud and honorable  Iranian laborers consider their labor as a battle. Your labor is a kind  of battle against the people who want to plunge the country in economic  decline and failure. Our honorable labor community should know that  their serious and innovative labor is a battle. You are fighting the  world of arrogance through your labor. Everybody should pay attention to  this point. 
Thankfully the general atmosphere of  our country is imbued with sincerity, love and brotherhood among  laborers and their employers. This is not to say that there are no  people who want to oppress our laborers. This is not to say that the  needs and rights of our labors are never ignored. Such things happen.  But the policy of the Islamic Republic and its officials and the general  orientation of the Islamic Republic is to create solidarity,  cooperation and friendship among all those who are involved in labor -  namely, laborers, their employers and government officials. The points  that were mentioned by the honorable Minister of Labor and Social  Affairs are important points. Some of the things he spoke about have  already been done, and the rest should be done as quickly as possible  through persistence and patience. We should try to help our working  class become an advantaged social class.  
This  year is "The Year of Economic Jihad". Economic jihad refers to an  essential point regarding the management of the country: today the enemy  has focused on our economy in order to counter Islam and the Islamic  Republic. This is not to say that they have forgotten other areas. No,  they are doing whatever they can in the cultural, security, political  and all other areas against the Islamic Republic. Their failure does not  mean that they do not put much effort into it. They are doing their  best. However, their main focus is on economic issues. Their purpose is  to separate the people from the government. They want to create a rift  between the people and the Islamic Republic. They are after creating  economic problems for the country. Therefore, economic jihad is  necessary. Economic jihad means that we should continue this battle, but  we should do so with the spirit of jihad, with all our power and with  pure intentions. And we should know what we are doing. This is the  meaning of "The Year of Economic Jihad". By Allah's favor, we will make a  quantum leap if the economic sectors of the country are committed to  this jihad in all governmental and private organizations. And all our  people will share the success.
I advise our  working class to fulfill their responsibilities well. I have repeatedly  quoted this hadith from the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.): "God bless those who  do their duty well."
We must make efforts to  produce high-quality products so that Iranian and non-Iranian consumers  come to believe that our domestic products are enduring, well-designed  and beautiful. This is the goal that our labor community and production  managers should strive towards. Of course there are certain requirements  that have to be met. It may be necessary to arrange training courses,  and this is the responsibility of governmental organizations. But the  goal should be producing high-quality products. When Iranian laborers  use their innovation, taste and skill, what they produce is interesting  and attractive.
The works produced by Iranians in  the past are the result of combining art and skill, and the same is true  today. This is tangible and obvious. Whenever Iranian art is utilized,  the final product turns out to be interesting and timeless. Fortunately  many of our domestic products are already better than similar foreign  products. And some of our products are far better than foreign products:  they are more beautiful, more enduring and more interesting. We should  try to achieve this quality in all our domestic products, including  foodstuff, everyday products, clothing and ornamental products. We  should take this into consideration in all our products, and we can do  so. Our labor community, our designers, our engineers, our investors and  our laborers can do this. This must be our aspiration: producing  enduring, beautiful and high-quality products. This is a large-scale  task.
Consuming domestic products is a point which  I would like to address to all our people. Dependence on foreign  products is one of the serious social problems which is rooted in the  era of taghut. There was a time when we did not have many domestic  products or our domestic products were not good enough for consumption.  This is not the case today. Our domestic products are high-quality  today. This is while there are some people who love to say that their  clothes and foodstuff have foreign brand names on them. This is a kind  of disease, and it is necessary to cure it. This shows that they do not  care about the fact they are living in this country and that they are  benefiting from the divine blessings which have been bestowed on this  country. So they channel the money has been earned inside the country  into the pockets of foreign laborers, money that should go into the  pockets of our domestic laborers. This means that we are ignoring the  needs of our domestic laborers who are making efforts and producing  goods for us. This means that we prefer foreign laborers to our domestic  laborers. This is a very bad habit.
I believe one  way in which our people can engage in economic jihad is to decide to  consume domestic products. Of course the other side of the issue is that  the quality of our domestic products should be acceptable. The  durability and quality of our domestic products should be acceptable to  our consumers. Both of these things are necessary.
Of  course there many issues which should be seriously pursued by our  government officials regarding "The Year of Economic Jihad". The issue  of employment is very important. Creating job opportunities is very  important. Paying attention to the economic infrastructures of the  country - which have been investigated and worked out by our experts -  is very important. Industry, agriculture and different issues related to  these areas are very important. All these things are essential.  Engaging in any of these areas is an instance of jihad in the way of  God.
One can see that the blessings which have  been bestowed on this country are so many that the obstacles will be  removed one after the other and the nation will move forward. This  progress is the destiny of our nation, and the efforts made by the  enemies are futile. They are just provoking further divine wrath and  causing further material and spiritual loss for themselves. Their  efforts will not get them anywhere. 
Today  arrogant, oppressive and anti-human organizations - and organizations  which have been disgraced in the world - have deployed their forces  against the Islamic Republic in the hope that they will manage to deal a  blow to this symbol of Islamic and human honor and glory. They were  hoping to prevent the Iranian nation from becoming an inspirational role  model for other nations. They are trying their best, but their efforts  will prove futile. They wanted to isolate the Iranian nation, but what  happened was the opposite. They arranged many trips to this region and  they held many meetings with corrupt individuals in the region, hoping  that they will manage to isolate Iran. After the impressive popular  uprisings in the region, thankfully the Iranian nation and the Islamic  Republic are the focus of attention in the region. The Iranian nation  and the Islamic Republic are now respected more than ever before, and  this is exactly the opposite of what they wanted.
The  US government, which is among the top governments that are accused of  having acted against humanity and human rights, wanted to take action to  isolate the Islamic Republic. The US President delivered a speech in  Egypt last year. Addressing the world of Islam with words which he  though were precious, he tried to attract hearts and restore the respect  which America had lost in the region. What was the result? Today  nations of the region hate the US government more than any other  government.
That is the way of the world. If a  nation moves towards divine goals keeping God in mind, Allah the Exalted  will assist it. Thankfully, today our nation is such a nation. Our  government officials and our people are making efforts. They are working  hard. In our country people make efforts to achieve divine goals.  Therefore, Allah the Exalted helps us.
On the  other hand, there are people who work against God's servants, God's path  and divine goals. They will have a bad destiny. They may be successful  for a short time, but their initial success will not get them anywhere.  The result is what our opponents and enemies and the arrogant powers can  see. By Allah's grace, the future of this region will be far better  than its current situation. Thanks to the determination of nations and  their efforts to tread the path of Islam, God will bestow far more  blessings on the people of the region.
We should  ask Allah the Exalted to help us treas this path of success. We should  pray to God to help us pursue this path and this purity in continuing  our movement. By Allah's favor, we will benefit from the favors of the  Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake). I hope Allah  the Exalted will bestow His mercy and blessings on our dear martyrs and  the honorable laborers who have been martyred. I hope God will  associate all of them and the immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam  (r.a.) with His friends in the hereafter.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
