
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to People of Fars Province"/>
I  would like to welcome the dear brothers and sisters who have traveled  here from Fars province. Through your important slogans and through your  presence in this meeting, you truly revived the memory of the great  bravery of the people of Fars province and Shiraz. The people of Fars  province have demonstrated valor on numerous occasions in contemporary  times and in the recent past. 
To be fair, Fars  province and Shiraz are among the most prominent places in our country -  in terms of distinguished manpower, in terms of knowledge, in terms of  literary works, in terms of different kinds of progress in the arena of  social life, in terms of political activities, in terms of jihad and in  terms of piety. The name of Shiraz figured prominently in the most  sensitive and vital social events of the pre-Revolution era. For  example, regarding the historic tobacco fatwa, which was the beginning  of a popular and conscious battle against the hegemony of the west,  Mirza Reza Shirazi was a prominent figure. If the politicians and elites  of our country had followed the path of Mirza Reza Shirazi, the destiny  of Iran would have been different. But colonialists stepped in and put  an end to his movement by taking advantage of the unawareness and greed  of certain people. Similarly, the name of Shiraz figured prominently  when the people of Iraq put up a fight against English colonialism and  interference. The leader of this movement was Mirza Mohammad Taqi  Shirazi who is also known as the second Mirza Shirazi. He was a great  man. He was a religious scholar and a marja taqlid. There were prominent  figures in Fars province during the constitutional movement, during the  political activities which led to the victory of the Islamic Revolution  and during and after the Revolution. This is about the issue of jihad.  "Surely jihad is one of the doors of Paradise, which Allah has opened  for His chief friends". The issue of jihad is not an unimportant issue.  It is the door to Paradise, and not everybody is allowed in. Only God's  friends are allowed to enter Paradise. This shows that our selfless  people are among God's friends, and this is why the door to Paradise has  been opened up for them. 
The same is true of  science. Shiraz has been a pioneer in the scientific movement during the  post-Revolution era, especially during the recent years. Regarding  political and social issues - which are difficult and confusing - the  people of Shiraz are considered among the most vigilant and insightful  people in the country. Sometimes political events get so complicated  that they become confusing. But we see that our people are vigilant. In  particular, the honorable people of Fars province are among the  pioneers. 
A prominent point about Fars province,  especially Shiraz, is that the satanic Pahlavi regime selected a few  places as centers for promoting deviation from ethical values and  religious spirituality. Shiraz was one of those places. They decided to  make use of the poetic and artistic spirit which is prevalent among the  people of this province. Fars province and Shiraz are the center of  literature. Fars province is the center of poetry and different kinds of  art, and this shows the characteristics of the people of this province.  The people of Fars province appreciate and produce art. The satanic  Pahlavi regime decided to make use of these characteristics. They  decided to make Fars province the center of spreading corruption. The  people disappointed them. See how much the people pay attention to Imam  Musa ar-Ridha's (a.s.) shrine and the shrines of his brothers. Compare  this attention with the past and see how much more the people respect  and pay attention to these shrines. That is to say, the path that the  people followed is exactly the opposite of the Pahlavi regime's  policies. They are still following the same path, and they will do so in  the future as well. This is why I express respect for the people of  Fars province and Shiraz. 
Fars province offered  14,600 martyrs to the Revolution, and five thousands of these martyrs  were from the city of Shiraz. This is a big number. When we say that one  person was martyred, it means that tens of people entered the arena and  made selfless efforts. It means that tens of people laid down their  lives, and only one of them was martyred. You can now see what 14,600  means. It means that the entire Fars province showed enthusiasm and love  for self-sacrifice. 
I have no intention of  praising the people of Shiraz or the honorable people of our country.  You neither need my praise, nor do you expect me to praise you. So why  am I saying these things? Because contrary to the enemy's wishes, I want  the history and identity of our nation to become clear for today's and  tomorrow's friends and enemies. This is because the enemies' propaganda  is pursuing the opposite of this. A nation's determination to insist on  its righteous goals - which are important for its life in this world and  the next - is the key to that nation's progress. This is exactly the  opposite of the goal pursued by wealthy, bullying and powerful people in  the world who want to spread their hegemony over nations of the world  and enslave human beings across the world. The only way in which a  nation can counter this goal is to select a righteous goal and to pursue  it in a determined way. This determination will help the nation achieve  its goal, and this nation becomes a role model for the people who are  watching it - just as the Iranian nation became a role model. Global  analyses of the regional issues suggest the same thing. They are saying  that Iran has become a role model. They are saying that the Iranian  nation has turned into a role model for the people of the region. They  are worried that what happened in Iran will happen in the region as  well. They are worried that the flag of Islam may be raised in the  region as well and that governments may be established on the basis of  Islam. This is the characteristic of resistance. 
Considering  the characteristics which I pointed out about the people of Fars  province, one cannot praise the great Iranian nation too much. No amount  of praise is an exaggeration. There has been a battle throughout  history, a battle between nations of the world and a few greedy,  power-thirsty, wealthy and arrogant people. This battle has been  continuing throughout history. Arrogant people have always had weapons,  money and a loud voice. And there are certain things that they have  traditionally lacked. They have been completely merciless and unfair.  They have been prepared to give rise to great tragedies and crimes in  order to reach their goals. On the other hand, nations of the world only  had their life, determination and faith to rely on. Whenever nations  have made use of these great tools and resisted, the opposing camp has  been defeated. But nations have not always been steadfast. They have not  always resisted. They have not always made the best of their life,  determination and faith, but whenever they have, they have managed to  make progress.
This battle is still continuing  today. The arrogant powers of the world - namely, western powers,  America and the Zionists - would never stop. They want to spread their  hegemony over the entire world and the entire financial resources of the  world. They want to dominate all human resources. What have nations  done wrong to deserve this? Why should nations of the world tolerate  their hegemony? Unfortunately these things have become realities. They  select people who are like them and put them in charge of nations of the  world in order to protect their interests and work against the  interests of nations and pressure them as much as they can. This has  happened throughout the world in different forms during the past 200  years - since the beginning of colonialism. The problem that nations of  the world have been suffering from during this period is not the  existence of dictators. Their problem is that dictators receive support  from global powers. It is global powers that have been trampling on the  rights of nations. This is the problem with the era of colonialism. It  is possible to analyze all these issues appropriately if we look at them  from this prospective. The same is true of today's issues.
Thanks  to Islam, the Islamic Revolution and widespread Islamic Awaking, today  certain events are happening in the region. There is no doubt that this  public awakening will produce results, just as they have in certain  parts of the region. The more the people of region preserve their  determination and their preparedness for self-sacrifice, the more the  probability of their victory will be. This is exactly what the arrogant  powers, America and the Zionists do not want to happen. They do not want  people to resist. America was surprised by the regional developments.  It received an unexpected blow. The same is true of the Zionists and the  self-righteous European colonialists. They were all surprised. But they  are trying to take control of the situation in one way or another. Of  course they have been unsuccessful so far. They failed completely in a  couple of countries, and they are struggling in a couple of other  countries. Definitely this awakening will not stop. This progressive  movement of the people is irrevocable. Whatever they do, this movement  will achieve results which will benefit nations and harm the global  powers. Of course nations of the region should stay vigilant. They  should know that the enemy is lying in ambush.
In  certain cases, they clearly oppress nations. Regarding the issue of  Bahrain, Libya and Yemen, all those who can sit in judgment would  recognize western powers as the obvious criminal and culprit if they  just paid careful attention. These western powers are oppressing the  people in those countries. Analyzing these issues is up to political  analysts, and they say the same thing in their analyses. The general  conclusion is that today America, the west and others are pressuring and  oppressing the people in favor of the Zionists and the fake Israeli  government. Unfortunately the people of Bahrain have been oppressed more  than other nations.
Because the Islamic Republic  adopts righteous positions and announces them clearly, they focus all  their propaganda attacks on the Islamic Republic. They want the Islamic  Republic to be an indifferent bystander. Such a thing is not possible,  and this is not the nature of the Islamic Republic. It is clear that  neither the nation, nor government officials, nor political elites can  be an indifferent bystander in this oppressive conflict, which has been  imposed on the people by the arrogant powers. So they say that Iran is  interfering in the internal affairs of those countries. What  interference? How did Iran interfere in the internal affairs of Bahrain,  Libya and Yemen? Yes, we expressed our view in a clear way. We were  never intimidated by the frown of the so-called powers of the world. We  did not pay attention to their frown, and we never will. 
We  announce our righteous position in a clear way. The righteous position  is that the people of Bahrain have the right to protest. You can discuss  this with any insightful person in the world. Explain their situation  to him. Explain the way the oppressed Bahraini people are being  governed. Explain what the rulers did to take advantage of this small  country. Then see if they condemn the ruling system or not. They are  making a mistake: confronting the people is useless. You may pressure  the people violently and manage to put down the uprising for a short  time, but the uprising will not die out. You will further infuriate the  people on a daily basis. One day you will lose control of the situation,  and it will be impossible for you to set things right. They are making a  mistake. Both the Bahraini government and those who send forces to  Bahrain are making a serious mistake. They think they can annihilate a  popular movement through these things. This is what the Islamic Republic  wants to say. The same is true of Yemen and Libya. Westerners are  playing a game with the people of Libya. Libya is a country which is  close to Europe and is full of oil. They do not want a populist  government, especially a populist Islamic government, to come to power  in Libya. So they just play a game with the people. The people of Libya  understand this. And the same is true of other places as well.
The  main criminal in these events is undoubtedly the arrogant powers of the  world, the international system of arrogance and the international  Zionist network, and today the Zionists are taking advantage of the  recent events. They pressure the people of Gaza and kill them on a daily  basis. The regional nations and governments and those who love the  truth should not ignore the activities of the Zionist regime. 
This  is the situation of the Islamic Republic of Iran. As a result, you see  that the propaganda and the political, economic and security actions of  the US and its allies are focused on the Islamic Republic. Of course the  Islamic Republic is standing firm, but they do not spare any  malevolence. They have not backed down. The strength of the Islamic  Republic has made their sword blunt. Their sword has hit the rock. I  would like to urge our honorable nation and government to preserve this  rock-solid position. Do not allow discord to be created. Do not allow a  rift to be formed. Do not let the enemy achieve what he is seeking  through its political malevolence and propaganda.
Notice  what uproar they caused in the world in the past 5, 6 days over an  issue which was not very important - the issue related to the Ministry  of Intelligence. Their analyses started to promote the idea that there  is a rift in the structure of the Islamic Republic, that the leadership  of the country is divided and that the President did not listen to the  Leader. They used their propaganda machines to seriously promote these  baseless things. Notice how desperately they are looking for a pretext.  Notice how they are lying in ambush like a wolf, looking for a pretext  to attack the Islamic Republic in whatever way they can. They know that  the government is busy making efforts and rendering services. Genuine  services are being rendered in the country. Whenever a service is  rendered somewhere, both the Leader and the people will support it. Our  judgment is not based on individuals. Our criterion is the work that is  done and the path that is selected. Wherever the people and I see hard  work and services, we support them. Thankfully today efforts are being  made. Our government officials - the President and his cabinet members -  are making genuine efforts. They work day and night. I see how active  they are. They are constantly making efforts and rendering services to  the people. These things are very valuable to the country. According to  the principles, I do not want to interfere in the actions and decisions  of the administration. The responsibilities have been specified in the  Constitution. Each government official has a particular responsibility. I  step in only when I feel a national interest is being ignored, which  was the case regarding the recent issue. Sometimes I feel that an  important national interest is being ignored, so I step in to prevent  this. This is not a particularly important issue because similar things  happen. But the opponents, our foreign enemies and those who own  international media outlets and propaganda machines use this issue to  create uproar through their propaganda.
My advice  to the domestic elements, those who care about the country and the  brothers and sisters inside the country who deal with issues related to  foreign propaganda is that they should not fan the flames of this  uproar. Why is it necessary to analyze these things and to present  arguments and counter-arguments? Thankfully the Islamic Republic is a  powerful system. Government officials are doing their job. By Allah's  grace, this humble person who has the responsibility of leadership is  standing firm on his correct positions. As long as I am alive and as  long as I have this responsibility, I will not allow the slightest  deviation in the great movement of the Iranian nation towards the  ideals. As long as our honorable people are present on the scene with  wisdom, insight and strong determination, God will bestow His blessings  on us. As long as we are present on the scene, we will benefit from  divine blessings. If we go after our personal interests and forget the  goals, divine assistance will definitely decrease.
But  fortunately you see today that the people are present on the scene in  every part of the country. The same is true about our government  officials and the three branches of the government. The executive,  legislative and judiciary branches of the government are truly present  on the scene. I personally see their involvement. They are making  serious efforts. They are working very hard. Their responsibilities are  very heavy.  
This year I raised the subject of  economic jihad. The determined efforts of our government officials have  given rise to a great movement. Both our people and our government  officials should join hands and start this economic jihad this year. As I  said, the slogans that I select for each year are meant to initiate a  continuing movement. The slogans are not meant to be practiced only for  one year. Thankfully these things are being done. We all have our own  flaws. I have my own flaws, and the heads of the three branches of the  government have their own flaws. Our honorable government officials are  not perfect. We should take refuge in Allah the Exalted. We should  identify our flaws and try to reduce them. We should not put obstacles  in the way of the impressive movement by our great nation.
I  pray to Allah the Exalted to continue bestowing His kind blessings on  our nation. I hope God will make the holy heart of the Imam of the Age  (a.s.) kind to us, and I hope God will help us benefit from his prayers.  I pray to Allah the Exalted to bestow the highest positions on our dear  martyrs and our magnanimous Imam who initiated this movement.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
