
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to Cultural and Political Figures"/>
May  God make the new year auspicious for the friends, brothers and sisters  [who have attended this meeting] and their family and relatives. I hope  the new year will be auspicious and enjoyable for all of you and the  entire Iranian nation. Of course we are partially responsible for this.  We are the ones who make our lives auspicious or inauspicious through  our behavior and our orientations. That is to say, the destiny of people  is determined by the choices they make. Allah the Exalted has given us  the capability to make choices. "And guide him to the parting of the  mountain ways?" [The Holy Quran, 90: 10] Allah the Exalted presents us  with choices. Of course sometimes the conditions make it easy for people  to make a choice. Other times the conditions make the choices  difficult. However, one should always make a choice. 
Every  day we repeatedly ask God to "guide us to the straight path" [the Holy  Quran, 1: 6], and this shows that every minute a path branches off from  the straight path we are treading - assuming that we have identified the  straight path and that we are following this path. That is to say, the  straight path is not like a tunnel that leads to the end once you enter  it. It is not like a railroad with no junctions. There are many  junctions on the straight path, and it is necessary to identify these  junctions and to choose the right direction. When we say "show us the  straight path", we are asking God to show us the right path every day  and in the case of all issues.
I do not want to  say that this is very difficult or impossible. No, Allah the Exalted has  placed clear signs in front of everybody's eyes. "This is because your  Lord would not destroy towns unjustly while their people were unwarned."  [The Holy Quran, 6: 131] Allah the Exalted will not admonish or punish  us for doing the wrong thing if we do not have any means of guidance.  No, Allah the Exalted provides His servant with the necessary means of  guidance. Of course there are certain exceptions to this general rule,  but Allah the Exalted generally provides people with guidance.
Norouz  is an appropriate name for the beginning of a new year, but we may call  this beginning whatever we like. Norouz is a very good opportunity. It  is very good if we divide our life into certain stages. If life  continues with monotonous regularity and new stages never start, one  would not think of innovation and new beginnings. One of the advantages  of dividing life into stages is that one would be able to think, "Well,  this year is over, and a new year has started." And the new year will  definitely bring about new actions, new ideas, new resolutions and new  motives. According to the traditions we and other nations of the world  observe, when the new year starts, people put on new clothes and make  their houses look new. For example, our people traditionally practice  spring cleaning and other such things. Apparently other nations have  similar traditions. Therefore, Norouz is a new stage.
The  beginning of a new stage is useful in that people get the opportunity  to think about their past and future actions. That is to say, they get  the opportunity to say, "Well, I had these flaws in the year that went  by, so I will start eliminating these flaws in the new year." This  affects all aspects of life.
I believe the most  important thing that people should think about is their relationship  with God. At the beginning of each new year, people should tell  themselves, "Last year and the previous years are gone, and there is  nothing I can do about them, but now a new stage has started." We should  define a new relationship with Allah the Exalted, proactively and  retroactively. The proactive aspect is related to committing sins.  People get used to committing certain sins, and they do not realize the  importance of those sins. If they stop to think about these sins, they  will notice them in their behavior and their actions. Of course people  give themselves the benefit of the doubt. People do not usually suspect  themselves. Unfortunately human beings justify their actions, but it is  not impossible to critically evaluate one's actions. Allah the Exalted  has provided us with the ultimate proof. If we look carefully, we can  identify our flaws. Human beings have an inner voice which is honest  with them. If they refer to their inner voice, their flaws will be  revealed to them.
Well, human beings get used to  certain sins. They underestimate the significance of certain sins. This  is one of the things that can be done in the new year. One can think of a  way to reduce the number of the sins one commits by writing them down.
If  I remember correctly, I read the biography of Shahid Afshordi last year  or the year before. It was mentioned in the biography that Shahid  Afshordi used to write down his mistakes every day. Ulama of ethics and  certain traditions recommend that we write down our mistakes. We are  advised to evaluate ourselves every night. Shahid Afshordi used to write  down these things. People like us cannot do so: our self-esteem cannot  take this although nobody else is supposed to see what we write down.  For example, he used to write in his notes, "I committed these sins  today."
Self-evaluation is a very good thing. It  is necessary to evaluate oneself and then reduce one's sins one by one.  We are used to committing certain sins. Sometimes one may be used to  committing 5, 6, 10 sins. We should try to eliminate these sins one by  one. We should try to reduce the weak points one by one.
The  same is true about the retroactive aspect. I believe if we start with  daily prayers, many of the problems will be automatically solved. This  is because daily prayers are very important. One should perform daily  prayers in an appropriate and attentive manner. Being attentive during  daily prayers means paying careful attention to what one says and thinks  about. One should not perform one's daily prayers without paying  attention to the meaning of what one says. For example, I am speaking to  you, and you are listening. I am aware that my audience is listening to  my speech. The same thing should be true about praying: we must believe  that God is listening to us. I believe that a person can get closer to  God even if he does not at all understand the meaning of what he says  during praying - he should just be aware that he is speaking to God. The  Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) said, "Daily prayers are a means for  every pious man to get closer to God." People like us may know the  meaning and interpretation of everything said during daily prayers, and  we may have read several books about daily prayers, but we may still  fail to pay attention to the meaning of what we say during daily  prayers. As the poet Saeb says, during praying some people think about  anything except God, and sometimes they remember what they have  misplaced.
Performing daily prayers in an  attentive manner - that is to say, paying attention to the fact that we  are speaking to God - is a good start. The same is true about performing  one's daily prayers on time. The same is true about congregational  prayers and nawafil [prayers which are not obligatory]. This way one can  gradually change one's life. Each new year can bring about such  auspicious things if we try to make the best of it. 
Beyond  these things, we can use our job to get closer to God. Each of us has a  responsibility to fulfill. Each of us has a job. The more carefully we  do our job and the more we try to make our job serve a divine cause, the  more the benefits will be.
May God bestow His  blessings and assistance on all of you. I hope He will make the new year  auspicious for all of us and the entire Iranian nation in the sense  that I explained.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
