
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Speech at IRGC Air Force Base"/>
In the Name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate
I praise the Almighty that our nation has dedicated and resolute young people like you. Among the most precious possessions of any nation are faithful, motivated and persevering individuals. Today I am addressing a gathering that is made up of such individuals. I would like to express my gratitude to all the esteemed commanders and servicemen of the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps Air Force for their great efforts and endeavors.
Fortunately, over the past years, the IRGC Air Force has developed into a military force with capabilities worthy of praise and admiration, for which we should give thanks to Almighty Allah.
In order to defend its lofty ideals, any nation needs to strengthen itself and increase its power. However, power defined by religion is quite different from power seen from a material perspective.
From a material viewpoint, power lies in military force, advanced and sophisticated equipment and weapons of mass destruction like nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. But the real power lies in those people who strive to restore their rights and accomplish their noble ideals, those who are ready to make every kind of sacrifice to achieve their goals.
Those trying to promote righteousness, justice and equity never use power in a brutal and unjust manner; they never humiliate or oppress others or act in an arrogant way; they never attack other nations' territories with an eye to plundering their national wealth and natural resources.
However, those relying on material power have no respect for the rights of others or for moral and spiritual values, as they follow the law of the jungle. They consider themselves rightful only because they are powerful.
You can see how arrogantly U.S. government, whose true face has been exposed to world, is presently acting on the global scene! What U.S. officials do not think of is respect for the rights of other nations or for moral values. What is of the utmost importance to the United States is the furtherance of its illegitimate interests.
Nonetheless, when power is combined with moral and spiritual values, it will never be used to infringe the rights of others; instead, it will be used to defend human rights and promote noble values. We have witnessed instances of such power in our country, in Lebanon and in Palestine over the past 24 years.
When the United States attacked Iraq to topple Saddam's regime, U.S. forces faced Iraqi soldiers who were weaker than them and, therefore, achieved victory. However, they are now feeling helpless in the face of strong will and brave resistance of Iraqi people, who are opposed to the domination of their country and natural resources by occupiers and who are determined to defend their national and religious identity. Thus, if nations possess the will and determination to resist, no outside power can dominate them.
The Islamic Republic promotes justice, respects human rights and defends the national and Islamic identity and honor and dignity of its nation. It would never withdraw in the face of bullying, intimidation and coercion. It would never submit to the illegitimate demands of the arrogant powers, nor would it renounce its lofty ideals and noble objectives. The reason is that it relies on the spiritual power of its nation. Our nation has displayed this power for the past 24 years, especially in the course of the Iraqi imposed war.
Today, the Iranian people and the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic, including the Army, the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps and the Basij, are prepared to utilize their capabilities, which are further strengthened by their spiritual power, deep religious faith and strong resolve, to defend their homeland and repulse any aggressor. Victory belongs to spiritual power.
Considering the crucial role of the air force in military confrontations, the honorable personnel of the IRGC Air Force should try to boost their capacities. It is true that the force has already made considerable progress, but it still has potential for advancement and development. Therefore, you should try to fulfill this potential through increased efforts, innovation and creativity based on expertise and spirituality.
I pray to Almighty Allah to assist you all in performing your duties and accomplishing your noble objectives.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
