
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Public Address in Mashhad"/>
All  praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings  upon the Holy Prophet, the most noble descendant of Adam, our Master  and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem Al-Mustafa Muhammad, and upon his immaculate  and infallible household, especially the one remaining with Allah on  earth.
I am thankful to Allah the Exalted who gave  me an opportunity to have this valuable experience again: being present  at Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha's shrine - may our souls be sacrificed for his  sake and God's greetings be upon him. I would like to congratulate all  the dear brothers and sisters who have attended this great and  impressive meeting on the auspicious occasion of Norouz and the  beginning of the new year. The people who have gathered here are in fact  a sample of the Iranian people. On the first day of the year, our dear  people travel to the holy shrine of Imam Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha from  nearby and distant cities and towns of the country in order benefit from  the blessedness of this holy place. Our dear brothers from the city of  Mashhad are also present in this impressive gathering. I extend my  greetings and congratulations to all of you. 
The  Iranian New Year is a valuable opportunity for all Iranian people and  for all Muslims who celebrate Norouz to contribute to the Islamic  movement. This is the characteristic of Islam: all opportunities, all  moments and all stages of life should be utilized to bring about  perfection and spiritual and material progress for humanity. We Iranians  can use this occasion to move towards what Islam has demanded from us  and towards Islamic teachings and Islamic ahkaam [Islamic rules  extracted from religious texts through Islamic jurisprudence]. This is  an opportunity for us to become familiar with the lofty goals of Islam.  Visiting one's relatives, paying attention to Allah the Exalted,  learning good things from one another, gathering in religious and  spiritual centers - these are valuable opportunities that we should  benefit from. 
The fact is that for many years,  especially during the rule of the Islamic system, the honorable people  of our country have used Norouz as an opportunity to engage in  spirituality and to get closer to Allah the Exalted. If you pay  attention, you will notice that during the first few hours of the new  year most people gather in religious centers and holy places to pray.  The meaning of this significant move is that the Iranian nation uses  this traditional occasion for religious purposes. We should follow this  prominent example in all affairs, and we should use Norouz to increase  our knowledge, spirituality and piety and to practice Islamic ahkaam,  Islamic teachings and Islamic ethics. I hope Allah the Exalted will make  all of us successful in this regard. 
Today I  will take this opportunity to speak about three issues. First I will  present a brief report of the year 1389: I will consider the issue from a  broad perspective and explain the orientation of the Iranian nation and  officials in the year 1389. Then I will speak about the new year, which  starts from today. I will speak about this year's slogan - namely,  "Economic Jihad" - and the appropriate measures that should be taken. In  the third part of my speech I will speak about the regional issues: the  issues of the Middle East, North Africa and the events that are  happening in this Islamic region. I will discuss these issues in the  light of the hypocrisy and plots of the enemies of the Islamic Ummah.  
Regarding  the first issue, I can say that last year's slogan - namely,  "Intensified Effort and Labor" - was observed throughout the year. Our  people managed to make intensified efforts in different areas. Of course  intensified effort and labor reveal their effects in the long term, but  it is possible to see the signs of intensified effort and labor when  you take a brief look at the year 1389, what the government officials  did and how our dear people cooperated with their officials. The signs  are clearly visible in many areas.
Let us start  with science and technology. At the beginning of the year 1389 I found  the opportunity to visit an important industrial center of the country.  During the last few days of the year I found another opportunity to  visit a technology exhibition, and I saw the long-term results of the  year-long movement with my own eyes. In the area of advanced science and  technology, I would tell you that what we have achieved in the country  is far more than what the people know about. A prominent scientific  movement started in different areas several years ago, and fortunately  this movement has gained further momentum on a daily basis.  
Once  I quoted an infallible Imam (a.s.), saying, "Knowledge is grandeur." It  means that knowledge is a source of power for nations and individuals.  "Anyone who gains this power can rule and anyone who does not will be  ruled." Those who have knowledge win the upper hand, and those who fail  to acquire knowledge will have to be dominated by others. This is a  characteristic of knowledge and technology. Today the country is clearly  moving towards obtaining knowledge in many areas, especially in  newly-established and highly advanced fields. Fortunately one can see  that our scientists and youth are making accelerated progress in  different areas - in biotechnology, in aerospace technology, in  nanotechnology, in stem cell research, in producing crucial  radiopharmaceuticals, in producing antineoplastic drugs, in producing  wind turbines which decrease the country's dependence on oil to a large  extent, in building supercomputers which are extremely important for the  country, in technologies related to new sources of energy. All of these  achievements require advanced knowledge. As I said last night in my New  Year address, the reports prepared by prestigious international centers  show that in this area our country is moving forward faster than many  countries in the world. These reports show that the pace of our progress  is several times more than the average rate of progress in the world.  
There  are 2, 3 important points about scientific and technological progress  which I would like to discuss now. The first point is that most of the  scientists who are doing these things are young. The average age of the  scientists who are involved in these endeavors is 35. That is to say,  they are mostly young, and it is necessary to trust these youth. Of  course there are also experienced and faithful professors who are  involved in these scientific endeavors, and this is very valuable. 
The  next point is that those who do these impressive things have a lot of  self-confidence, and this self-confidence is the main asset. Manpower is  the main asset, and this is what our country enjoys. Our youth are  making progress in this arena with high morale, and they believe that  they can do anything, anything for which the country has the necessary  infrastructures.
The next point regarding the  issue of scientific progress is that the chain of science, technology,  production and commercializing the products is in the process of being  established. And this chain is very important. That is to say, we  produce knowledge, turn it into technology, develop products, market the  products through international trade and produce wealth for the  country. We do not produce knowledge just to have a good feeling about  our progress in scientific areas. No, this knowledge brings about wealth  for the country and benefits all people. This is the way in which  production of knowledge contributes to national wealth and addresses the  needs of the people. The effects of intensified effort and labor are  clearly visible in scientific areas.
The next area  in which the signs of intensified effort and labor are clearly visible  is economic areas. Redistributing subsidies, which was a quantum leap  for the country, was one example of economic endeavors. Our dear people  should know that all economic experts - both the experts who agree with  the economic views of the current administration and the experts whose  economic views are different from the views of the current  administration - unanimously agree that redistributing subsidies is  necessary, essential and very constructive. This was among the things  that was demanded from previous administrations. Entering this arena was  very difficult, and the ground was not fully prepared. Thankfully this  work has already been initiated. To be fair, the cooperation between the  government and the people was excellent. The people offered excellent  cooperation when practicing the Subsidy Redistribution Law. The effects  of this policy will gradually become clear in the future, although some  of the positive effects have already revealed themselves. The primary  goal of the law is to distribute subsidies in a fair way. The government  distributes subsidies among the people. Previously the larger portion  of these subsidies would go to wealthy people and those who consumed  more energy. And those had less money and consumed less energy would  receive a smaller share of the subsidies. The purpose of the subsidy  redistribution policy is to distribute state subsidies in a fair way so  that everybody receives an equal share. This is a great leap towards  establishing social justice.
Managing the  consumption of the country's resources - especially water and energy  resources - is the second goal. I named the 1387 as "The Year of  Reforming the Norms of Consumption" meaning being economical and  avoiding waste. The Subsidy Redistribution Law is one of the ways in  which we can truly reform the norms of consumption. Some positive  effects of the law have already been noticed. Energy consumption has  been reduced during the few months that the Subsidy Redistribution Law  has been practiced, and this is beneficial to the country. Wasteful use  of bread and flour - which are great divine blessings and a lot of  efforts go into producing them - has been reduced. Consumption has been  balanced in this regard. This is among the benefits we have already  obtained. Of course, by Allah's favor, there will be many other benefits  in the future, and reforming the economic structure is among these  benefits.  
The increase in non-oil exports was  another sign of intensified effort and labor in the economic arena.  Unfortunately our country has depended on oil exports since decades ago.  All economists who care about our country reject this policy, but we  have been used to this state of affairs. It is wrong to export oil and  use the money to manage the country. Many years ago I said that one of  my wishes is that one day we will be able to run the country without  exporting even one single drop of oil. This has not happened so far. Of  course it is very difficult to do this. Increasing our non-oil exports  helps us move closer to this goal, and this is already happening. A  great leap was made in this regard in the year 1389.
Confronting  the sanctions in an intelligent and firm manner is one of the things  that shows intensified effort and labor in the economic arena. These  sanctions were imposed on us by the west - led by America - and  unfortunately some European governments blindly followed America in this  regard. Since the beginning of year 1389 they have been trying to  intensify their sanctions on Iran. According to their calculations, the  Islamic Republic and the Iranian nation should have been brought to  their knees in 5-6 months. This was what they thought. Through the  sanctions they wanted to make life so difficult for the Iranian nation  and the Islamic Republic that the people would protest against the  Islamic Republic. This was their goal. A clever and firm policy was  adopted against these sanctions, and the sword of the enemy became  blunt. The enemy did not manage to achieve its goals through these  sanctions. Fortunately the officials managed to leave this situation  behind through strenuous efforts. Today westerners admit that imposing  sanctions on Iran is no longer effective.  
They  said that they would impose gasoline sanctions. This has been one of our  problems over the past years. Our country is an oil exporter, but we  used to import huge amounts of gasoline, which is produced from oil.  They said that this was the weakness of the Islamic Republic and that  they would block gasoline imports. Before they had a chance to take  action, our government officials started to prepare the ground for  producing gasoline. Thus, our dear homeland became self-sufficient in  gasoline. Thanks to their sanctions, we became self-sufficient in  gasoline. Thanks to their sanctions, our government officials started to  think of a way to produce gasoline, and their efforts helped our  country become self-sufficient in gasoline. I heard similar things from  some of the young scientists at the technology exhibition which I  visited last month. They told me, "We wanted to build a machine, and we  went abroad to buy the required parts, but they told us that they would  not sell them to us because of the sanctions, so we realized that we had  to manufacture the required parts as well. We came back and tried to  produce those parts, and we succeeded to do so without the help of  foreigners." This is the clever approach. Both our people and our  government officials approached the sanctions of the enemy in this way.  That is to say, they deprived the enemy of his most effective tools.  What you did was like disarming the enemy in a battle. This was another  instance of intensified effort.
Good achievements  have been made regarding the issue of employment. According to  government reports, 1.6 million job opportunities were created in the  year 1389. If this report is accurate, the number is half a million more  than the expected job opportunities. Good achievements have also been  made in such areas as housing projects, construction of highways and  road systems, and electronic services - all of which are related to the  infrastructures of the country. These are the economic achievements. 
Many  achievements have been made in other areas as well, but I will not  discuss them for lack of time. In any case, thankfully it is clear that  the year 1389 was truly "The Year of Intensified Effort and Labor". Of  course the year 1389 does not have any special significance in itself.  This year, next year and the following years will all be "The Year of  Intensified Effort and Labor". The Iranian nation and its officials  should make intensified efforts all the time so that we can achieve the  position that the Iranian nation deserves. 
Now I  would like to speak about this year's slogan and the things that should  be done. Of course there are important areas all of which are a  priority. For example, transforming the bureaucratic system is  necessary. Transforming the education system is also a fundamental  necessity. The position of the humanities in universities and in  research and educational centers is essential. The issues related to the  culture and ethics of our society are important. However, experts  believe that at this point in time economic issues are more important  and more urgent than all other issues of the country. If our country  manages to make jihad-like efforts in economic areas and if the big leap  that has been made is coupled with other leaps, this will undoubtedly  produce great results for the country, for our progress and for the  grandeur of the Iranian nation. 
In this regard  the important criterion is the accelerated economic growth which has  been specified in the fifth development plan - a growth of at least 8  percent. Productivity should be a large portion of this growth. That is  to say, we should be able to utilize the country's facilities in a  better way. In my speech on the first day of the year 1388, I made a few  points about the issue of extravagance and the problems that exist in  the area of productivity. The people should know these things. I  recommend that our government officials speak to the people about the  importance of increasing the share of productivity in total economic  growth of the country. They should tell the people how important it is  to increase the share of productivity in economic growth of the country  and how important it is to decrease the difference between the income of  the poor and the rich. Such differences are not favorable to us. Islam  does not approve of such differences. They should try to do these things  according to the fifth development plan. 
Decreasing  the unemployment rate is among the crucial issues of the country.  Increasing private investments and helping the private sector to invest  in economic projects of the country are also among the crucial issues.  In this regard one of the important things that can be done is to  establish cooperatives. Cooperatives can accumulate great capital and  invest in important economic projects of the country. They can help  resolve important problems. It is necessary to prepare the legal  requirements in this regard. This means supporting the blossoming of  labor.   
As for economy in the use of essential  resources, especially water resources, today 90 percent of our water  resources are being used up by the agricultural sector. Just consider  what will happen if the government succeeds in reforming the methods of  irrigation and reduces this amount by only 10 percent. We only use 10  percent of our water resources for all other purposes - including  household and industrial purposes. Imagine will happen if we spend 10  percent less water in the agricultural sector. In fact we will have  twice as much water for non-agricultural sectors, which is very  important. 
The direct involvement of the people  in economic matters is something necessary. This depends on providing  the necessary economic information, which is a responsibility of our  government officials. And I hope this process will speed up on a daily  basis. Of course our media should play a role. They can raise public  awareness. The government should also be active in this regard so that  it can manage economic matters.
If we want this  great economic movement to take place in our country in the year 1390,  certain requirements should be met. I would like to briefly mention  these requirements. First of all, it is necessary to have the spirit of  jihad. Since the beginning of the Revolution up until now, our people  have been successful whenever they have entered the arena with the  spirit of jihad. We saw this during the Sacred Defense and during  reconstruction of the country. Currently we can see the same thing in  the scientific movement of the country. If we maintain this spirit of  jihad in different areas - that is to say, if we do our duty for the  sake of God in a tireless and serious manner - this movement will  undoubtedly continue. 
The second requirement is  to strengthen spirituality and the spirit of religious faith in society.  Dear people, everybody should know that piety in our society and among  our youth will help our nation in worldly matters as well. It is wrong  to think that piety among the youth reveals its effects only during  itikaf in mosques or when reciting Dua Kumeyl. If the youth enjoy piety,  they will stay away from intemperance and addiction to drugs. They will  start utilizing their talents and making efforts. They will make  progress in scientific, social and political areas. The same is true of  economy. The spirit of piety and spirituality plays a very important  role.
The next requirement is that the country  should not be distracted by side issues. Most of the time there is a  central issue in the country which should be the focus of everybody's  efforts. But suddenly we see some people bring a side issue into focus.  This is analogous to the situation of a caravan that is on an important  mission and is moving through a desert towards its destination, but  suddenly something unimportant attracts the attention of the caravan in  one part of the desert and it stops moving forward. Side issues should  not be brought into focus. Fortunately our people can think critically.  They are vigilant. They can distinguish side issues from primary issues.  Care should be taken not to let side issues be the focus of public  attention.  
Preserving unity and national  solidarity is another requirement. It is necessary to maintain and  strengthen the unity that exists among and between the people and  government officials. The people love their government officials. They  trust their officials. They help their officials. They cooperate with  their officials. There is unity among the people. One of the big plots  of the enemies of the Iranian nation is to foment discord inside the  country under ethnic, religious, political and partisan pretexts. It is  necessary to preserve unity. Fortunately our nation is vigilant. All  those who care about the country and religious democracy - which is a  source of pride for the Iranian nation - should cooperate in a  harmonious manner. Government officials should do the same. If they have  issues with one another, they should try to avoid making these issues  public because this would be detrimental to our national unity.  Everybody should pay attention to this point. I seriously warn our  government officials about this issue. Our government officials may have  issues with one another - this has always been the case. As a person  who has been involved in such issues, I have been witness to such  disagreements since the beginning of the Revolution. Sometimes the  executive branch had issues with the legislative branch. Other times the  legislative branch had issues with the judiciary. Yet other times the  judiciary had issues with the executive branch. It is natural for  government officials to have issues with one another, and sometimes  their complaints may be legitimate, but they should not make their  issues public. They should not disturb the mental and emotional peace of  the people. They should not disappoint the people. They should resolve  their issues among themselves. It is possible to negotiate a solution to  the most important issues of the world, let alone such trivial issues.  Therefore, it is important to have unity and harmony among the three  branches of the government.
Of course there is an  important point which I should stress. Sometimes after I announce a  slogan at the beginning of the year, I see placards hanging everywhere -  in Tehran and other cities of the country - with the slogan written on  them. This is useless. Measures that are sometimes adopted are  expensive, yet unnecessary. What I expect from government officials and  from our dear people is that they should listen to these slogans and try  to practice them. It is totally unnecessary to produce a large number  of placards and posters and to put them up everywhere. Such things are  unnecessary if they do not cost any money. And if they cost money, then  they are problematic. In this regard there is no need to do something  that is expensive. 
Of course the central  importance of economic matters does not mean that we should ignore other  areas. It is necessary to pay attention to other areas as well,  especially science and technology, and to help and trust our young  scientists so that they can make great achievements.
As  for the regional issues, the recent events which have happened in the  region - in Egypt, Tunisia, Libya and Bahrain - are very important. A  fundamental change is taking place in this Islamic and Arab region. This  is a sign of Islamic Awakening. The same thing which has been shouted  as a slogan in the Islamic Republic for decades is revealing itself in  the context of these countries.
These developments  have two characteristics: one is the presence of the people, and other  is the religious orientation of these movements. These are two essential  characteristics. The physical presence of the people - this is what  happened in the Islamic Revolution. Parties, people who live in their  ivory towers and political analysts could not do anything. The art of  our magnanimous Imam was that he managed to encourage the people to  enter the arena. When the people entered the arena with their body and  soul, insoluble problems were resolved and dead ends were eliminated.  Today the same thing is happening in other countries. In Egypt and  Tunisia it was the people who entered the arena, otherwise intellectuals  and those who live in ivory towers were always there and they were  talking all along. They often called on the people to protest, but  nobody would listen to them. This time it was the people who entered the  arena with a religious orientation. Friday prayers, congregational  prayers, Name of God, religious scholars, promoters of religion,  founders of new schools of religious thought in certain countries -  these were the elements that encouraged the people to step in. This is a  characteristic of these events. 
Why did the  people step into the arena? Obviously their dignity was the factor that  caused them to enter the arena. The oppressive rulers in Egypt, Tunisia  and other countries had hurt the pride of the people. For example, the  people of Egypt had to see the leader of their country commit the worst  and most hideous crimes for Israel. If Hosni Mubarak had not cooperated  with Israel in the case of the siege on Gaza, Israel could not have  pressured the people of Gaza like that. Israel could not have committed  those crimes without his help. But Hosni Mubarak stepped in and helped  Israel to block the way to Gaza. Then they realized that the people of  Gaza had dug tunnels under the ground. In order to stop the oppressed  people of Gaza from using these tunnels, they built steel walls around  them which ran 30 meters below the surface and cut through the tunnels.  It was Hosni Mubarak who did this. The people of Egypt were watching  these things, and this was why their pride was hurt. 
Similar  things happened in other countries as well. For example, Gadhafi showed  an anti-western attitude during the first few years of his rule, but he  has rendered great services to the west during the recent years. The  people of Libya saw that a simple threat was enough to make Gadhafi load  all the nuclear facilities of his country onto a ship and tell  westerners to take them away. Just compare the situation of our nation  with the Libyan nation. Our nation saw that the entire world, led by  America, was protesting against Iran's nuclear program. They imposed  sanctions on us. They threatened us with military attacks. They  threatened that they would attack our country. Not only did our  government officials not retreat, but they also increased our nuclear  facilities by several times each year against the wish of the enemy. In  Libya the people saw their government officials get rid of all their  nuclear facilities in the face of western threats, or what they call  "western incentives". Just the way you give a lollipop to a child,  westerners gave "incentives" to them and they gave up everything. The  Libyan people saw this happening, which filled their hearts with sorrow  and hurt their pride. The same thing can be seen in all the countries  whose people have revolted against their governments.
What  was America's position? This is important to us. Initially the  Americans were astonished by these events. They could not analyze the  situation. They did not understand what was happening. They could not  believe it. After these events took place, they adopted contradictory  positions because they did not have an appropriate understanding of the  events and because they did not know the people. Of course in the case  of these and other countries, America's support for dictators is a point  which has been constantly noticed about America's behavior. They  supported Hosni Mubarak as long as they could. Then they realized that  it was not possible to keep him in power, so they threw him away. This  is a lesson to the leaders of other countries who are dependent on  America. They should know that when they become useless to America, the  Americans will ignore them and will throw them away like an old cloth.  But they supported and defended the dictator until the last moment.  
What  happened was truly intolerable to America and the west. Egypt is one of  the main pillars of America's Middle Eastern policies. They were  relying on Egypt. They did not succeed in preserving this pillar. The  people defeated them. Then the Americans tried to preserve the structure  of the Egyptian regime. These are instances of America's hypocrisy and  plots: deceitful and evil, but at the same time superficial. If nations  stay vigilant, they can easily expose America's hypocrisy and foil its  plots. After losing Hosni Mubarak in Egypt and Ben Ali in Tunisia, the  Americans tried to preserve the structure of their regimes. They tried  to let government officials be replaced but preserve the structure of  the regimes. Therefore, they insisted that a prime minister should  assume power in those countries. But the nations continued their  uprising and foiled this plot. They overthrew those governments as well.  By Allah's favor, America's failures will continue in the region.
After  they lost their agents in these countries, they took two courses of  action. One was opportunism, and the other was simulation. Through  opportunism they tried to hijack these revolutions. The plot was to  deceive the people. They expressed their support for the people and at  the same time they tried to put their own supporters in positions of  power. They were unsuccessful in this regard. Simulation was the second  plot - that is to say, they tried to simulate the events of Egypt,  Tunisia, Libya and certain other countries in Iran, the country that  enjoys religious democracy and a populist government. They deployed  their agents inside the country: truly weak and ignoble individuals who  are easily influenced by human passions. They were planning to simulate a  hopeless and grotesque movement in the country. But the Iranian nation  kicked them in the mouth. [People shout "death to hypocrites"] The real  hypocrite is America. What they are doing is true hypocrisy: they claim  to support nations. They are hypocritical about Egypt. They say they  support the Egyptian people. 
Our dear people  should know that America's President has sent a message to the Iranian  nation, saying that he supports them. They claim that they are opposed  to dictatorship and that they support the rights of nations. They are  lying. Not only do they not show mercy to other nations, but they also  show no mercy to their own people. In spite of America's critical  economic situation, the current US President spent hundreds of billions  of dollars from the tax paid by US citizens in order to keep banks, arms  companies and oil industries going. That is to say, he is spending the  money that belongs to the American people on American companies and  banks. Therefore, they do not even show mercy to their own people. Today  the American nation is struggling with the widespread economic crisis,  and it does not have a solution. The torture centers of Guantanamo and  Abu Ghraib and other torture centers are another issue. They do not  understand nations. Does the current US President know what he is  saying? Does he really understand who are behind his policies, or is he  unaware and confused? We do not know the answer to these questions. He  says that the people who had gathered at Tehran's Azadi Square are like  the people at Egypt's Tahrir Square. He is right: each year on the 22nd  of Bahman, the people of Iran gather at Azadi Square and shout "death to  America".
The position of the Islamic Republic on  the regional issues is clear. We seek to defend nations and their  rights. We support Muslim nations and oppressed nations in different  parts of the world. We are opposed to bullies, arrogant powers,  dictators, evil individuals, hegemonic powers and plunders, no matter  where they are. This is the position of the Iranian nation and the  position of the Islamic system. This is the clear position adopted by  the Islamic Republic. These are the policies. These are what the hearts,  minds and tongues of our people and government officials say. 
There  are two things which are worthy of attention. One is the issue of  Libya, and the other is the issue of Bahrain. Regarding the Libyan issue  we utterly condemn the behavior of the Libyan government - killing and  pressuring the people, dropping bombs on cities and killing civilians.  But we also utterly condemn the interference of America and westerners  in Libya. They claim that they want to enter Libya or carry out military  operations to defend the people. This is not at all acceptable. It is  one month that the people of Libya are being bombed. If you truly  support the Libyan people, if you really care about the Libyan people,  you should help them. You should provide them with weapons. You should  give them the facilities they need. You should provide them with  anti-aircraft weapons. Instead of doing these things, they stood by and  watched the people being killed for one month. Now they want to step in.  Therefore, you have not come to defend the people. You are after  Libya's oil. You want to establish a foothold in Libya. You want to use  Libya as a foothold in order to monitor the future revolutionary  governments of Egypt and Tunisia, which are located on the east and west  of Libya. Your intention is evil. We do not agree with the action taken  by westerners, who are led by America. The United Nations, which should  serve the interests of nations, has unfortunately turned into a tool in  the hands of these people. It just provides what they need. This is a  disgrace for the United Nations. Therefore, the presence of foreign  powers and westerners in Libya is totally unacceptable. If they want to  help the people of Libya, the door is open: they can help and equip the  people, and the people will settle their issues with Gadhafi and others.  Why do you enter Libya? 
In terms of its nature  the issue of Bahrain is essentially the same as the issues of other  regional countries. That is to say, the issue of Bahrain is not at all  different from the issue of Egypt and Tunisia. It is all about a nation  whose government ignores its rights. What is the goal of the popular  uprising of the Bahraini people? Their main demand is that there should  be elections in which each person can have one vote. Is this too much to  expect? In Bahrain there is a superficial democratic facade, but the  Bahraini people cannot really vote. They are being oppressed. Westerners  took this opportunity to interfere in the affairs of the regional  countries by bringing up a new issue: the Shia-Sunni issue. Just because  the poor people of Bahrain happen to be Shia, nobody in the world  should support them. The TV channels that used to cover the details of  the regional issues should now be silent about the events in Bahrain.  They should not reflect the killing of the people of Bahrain. And then  some people in Persian Gulf States - whether politicians or journalists -  start talking nonsense, saying that the issue of Bahrain is a  Shia-Sunni war. What Shia-Sunni war? It is the protest of a nation  against the oppression that is being imposed on it, just like what  happened in Tunisia and Egypt and just like what is happening in Libya  and Yemen: there is no difference. 
The Americans  would be happy to use their propaganda machines in the region and pass  off the issue of Bahrain as a Shia-Sunni conflict. They would be happy  to both block the support that is offered to the oppressed Bahraini  people and to change the nature of issues and promote them. They ask why  Iran is supporting the people of Bahrain. Well, we support everybody.  We have been supporting the Palestinian people for 32 years. Which  country, which government and which nation has offered support to the  Palestinian nation during the past 32 years? Are the Palestinian people  Shia? Our people made a lot of efforts regarding the issue of Gaza. Once  our youth went to the airport, prepared to go to Gaza. They wanted to  go to Gaza and fight Israel. They thought they could do so, but they  would not let them in. We told them not to go. We stopped them because  we did not want them to get blocked outside the borders of Gaza. There  was no chance they would let anybody in. Our people expressed their  emotions in the case of Gaza, Palestine, Egypt, Tunisia and other  places. But they were not Shia. Therefore, this is not a Shia-Sunni  issue. They are making spiteful and malevolent efforts to present the  issue of Bahrain as a Shia-Sunni issue. Unfortunately some people who do  not have any evil motives fell into this trap. If there are benevolent  people involved in this issue, I would like to tell them, "Do not make  this a Shia-Sunni issue." This would be the greatest service to America.  This would be the greatest service to the enemies of the Islamic Ummah  who are trying to present the anti-tyranny movement of a nation as a  Shia-Sunni Conflict. This is not a Shia-Sunni conflict. 
We  do not distinguish between Gaza, Palestine, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt,  Bahrain and Yemen. Oppression against nations should be condemned  everywhere. We approve of national movements that shout Islamic slogans  and seek freedom. After the tanks of the Saudi government were deployed  in the streets of Manama in Bahrain, the Americans showed how shameless  they are when they announced that they do not consider the Saudi  involvement in Bahrain as foreign interference. But when our marja  taqlids, religious scholars and benevolent people tell them not to kill  the people, they accuse us of interference. Is this interference? When  we tell an oppressive regime not to kill its own people, they call this  interference, but when a foreign government deploys its tanks in the  streets of Bahrain, they say they do not consider it foreign  interference! Such moves, such statements and such propaganda show how  shameless the Americans and their regional subordinates are.  Of course  we believe that the Saudi government made a mistake. It should not have  done this. It will only become hated in the region. The Americans are  thousands of kilometers away from this region. Being hated in the region  may not be very important to them. But the Saudis are living in this  region. If nations of the region hate them, they will have to pay a huge  price. They made a mistake, and anybody else who follows them will make  the same mistake. 
I say with clarity that, by  Allah's favor, a new movement has started in the region. This movement  is a popular movement. It is the movement of the Islamic Ummah. It is  the movement which shouts Islamic slogans. It is a movement towards  Islamic goals. The movement shows that nations have awakened. According  to the divine promise, this movement will definitely achieve victory.  The Iranian nation feels proud and happy about being the first to tread  this path and remaining steadfast. Our young generation did not see the  Revolution, but they are not less steadfast - if not more so - than the  revolutionaries of that time. 
Dear God, by the  blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household, protect our dear  youth. Dear God, bestow Your mercy and blessings on our dear nation.  Dear God, increase the honor of those who serve this nation, this  movement, Islam and Muslims. Dear God, make the holy heart of the Imam  of the Age satisfied with us. Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad  (s.w.a.) and his household, make the immaculate souls of our martyrs and  the pure soul of our magnanimous Imam satisfied with us. Bestow on us  of the grace and blessings that You bestowed on them.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
