
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to Assembly of Experts"/>
Honorable  gentlemen and esteemed members of the Assembly of Experts, welcome. I  would like to thank the dear brothers and the esteemed gentlemen for  their efforts - both the efforts which have been made during this  meeting and the efforts which have been made in different commissions. I  will pray for you. I hope Allah the Exalted will accept your efforts  and reward them. 
I would like to thank all the  gentlemen, especially Mr. Hashemi Rafsanjani who acted against the  expectation of the spiteful enemies in this meeting. They expected to  see discord grow among the members of the Assembly of Experts. They  expected the competition for rendering services to turn into the  commonplace competition of the material world, a negative competition to  occupy centers and positions of power. Thankfully this was not what  happened. Well, this was what Mr. Hashemi was expected to do,  considering the wisdom and sense of responsibility that I have always  noticed in him. Gentlemen, you elected the right person [as head of the  Assembly of Experts]. Mr. Mahdavi has been a prominent figure since the  beginning of the Revolution up until today as far as the world of the  clergy, the world of politics, the current issues of the country and the  issues of our Islamic seminaries and universities are concerned. Thanks  to the sincerity and wisdom of the gentlemen which can be noticed in  their words and actions, what happened will benefit Islam and Muslims,  and this is what is expected from the gentlemen. 
Considering  the issues of the region, the current conditions of the country are  extremely important and sensitive. The dimensions of the regional issues  are completely out of the ordinary. There are great aspects to what is  happening. What the enemies, the international opportunists and arrogant  powers want and what they are planning is a different issue. What  happened enjoys two crucial characteristics, and these two  characteristics have been the wishes of sincere Muslims and those who  cherish lofty ideals in the Islamic Republic and other parts of the  world. Presence of the people was one characteristic and shouting  Islamic slogans was the other characteristic. These two characteristics  are very important.
Presence of the people means  stepping into the battlefield and facing the dangers, just like what  happened in Iran. When this happens, no power can stand up against a  nation, let alone powers like America. Even if all powers of the world  join hands, they cannot stand up against a nation that has entered the  arena with all its power. Of course they wage wars, kill people and shed  blood, but they are defeated in the end. As the Imam (r.a.) said at  that time, blood will overcome the sword. This has already happened. The  people have entered the arena with their body and soul. They have not  just sent their representatives. They have not limited themselves to  words. This has happened not just in one single country, but in several  different countries. And the ground is already prepared for such events  in other countries as well. This is one point which is very important.  Nothing except the divine hand of power is able to cause such things.  When the ground is prepared, the people play their role. There is no  doubt about this. But hearts belong to the divine hand of power. It is  Allah the Exalted who bestows determination on hearts and deploys them.  The divine hand of power is noticeable in such events and because the  divine hand of power is involved in these events, victory is ensured.
The  second point is the issue of Islamic slogans. In Islamic countries, the  people are part of the Islamic Ummah. Islam has set its roots even in  countries where the manifestation of Islam was limited and where the  people have been pressured. And this is a characteristic of Islam. In  the U.S.S.R., where Marxism had done everything in its power to get rid  of Islam, the people stepped into the arena as soon as the communist  regime was overthrown. The youth who had not even experienced Islamic  rule started to shout Islamic slogans. This characteristic is due to the  fact that Islam is rooted in hearts. 
The same is  true of regional countries. Of course there have always been other  motives as well: liberal, socialist, ethnic and other such motives. But  the majority of the people are Muslims, and the slogans are Islamic,  especially in a country like Egypt where Islam is deeply rooted and the  Quranic spirit and love for the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household are  prevalent.
Therefore, the event that is happening  is an extraordinary event, and it is in its early stages. As government  officials of the Islamic Republic, we have responsibilities to fulfill.  We should pay attention to these responsibilities and not let this  historical stage pass us by. 
The Islamic  Revolution created a role model and a discourse, and this is one of the  things that definitely affected these events. The Islamic Revolution  became a model for Muslims. The Islamic Revolution and the establishment  of the Islamic Republic presented a system of government with a  complete Constitution. And the Islamic Republic managed to practice this  system of government. This system stood firm for 32 years, and nobody  could harm it. The system was increasingly strengthened. Today the  Islamic Republic is not comparable to 10, 20, 30 years ago in terms of  its firmness. The Islamic Republic made different advances - scientific  advances, technological advances, industrial advances, social advances.  Thoughts matured and new ideas were produced. A great scientific  movement started in the country and different activities were carried  out. The construction projects which have been carried out in the  country have in some cases put the country among the top countries in  the world. These are the things which have already taken place. These  things are tangible for Muslim nations. They can see these things. The  Revolution came and established a system of government, and this system  prevailed and achieved increasing power and progress on a daily basis.  This is how a role model is formed. Such an effort to create a role  model creates a discourse: the discourse of Islamic identity and  dignity. Today the sense of Islamic identity among Muslim countries is  not comparable to 30 years ago. Today the sense of Islamic dignity and  the demand for this Islamic dignity is not comparable to the past. This  has already happened.
Naturally, as a consequence,  the opposing camp is defeated. Corrupt and dependent autocrats were in  power in some countries. Allah the Exalted has promised: "Humiliation  from Allah and heavy punishment will smite the guilty for their  scheming." [The Holy Quran, 6: 124] Their scheming will not benefit them  in any way. Rather, Allah the Exalted will humiliate them for scheming.  This has already happened, and it is in front of our eyes.
This  is another instance in which we could see the Quranic signs with our  own eyes. This is a modern example, and it is very valuable. We can  experience and see with our own eyes what Allah the Exalted has promised  in the Holy Quran.
This is the direction of an  important portion of the propaganda that is broadcast against the  Islamic Republic: they want to prevent creation of role models. They  want to prevent the Islamic Republic from becoming a successful role  model in the eyes of Muslim nations. I believe this is a very important  point which deserves our attention. The enemies are trying to prevent  the Islamic Republic from presenting itself as a successful role model  to other nations. This is because when a role model appears, people move  towards it. When the success of this role model is recognized, people  are encouraged to follow it. 
About fifty or sixty  years ago, an Egyptian writer wrote in his book that if Muslims manage  to establish an Islamic government in a part of the world, it is more  effective in spreading Islam than thousands of books and efforts to  promote Islam. He was right. Unfortunately we are far away from  practicing Islam in a perfect way. Although the model we have presented  does not correspond to Islam as much as we want, our current level of  success in infusing Islam into our society has revealed its positive  effects. We can see the resulting glory, power, progress and  independence. The people can see these effects. Therefore, they want to  prevent the presentation of role models. As a result, they try to  undermine this role model in the eyes of those who want to follow it.  This is one of the things that has been done since the beginning of the  Revolution. If there is a weakness, they magnify it. If there is no  weakness, they create one and attribute it to us. We should pay  attention to this point. This is one of the essential things that the  enemy follows in his propaganda, and all their efforts are in this  direction. 
Two factors play a role in undermining  this role model. One is the domestic factor: the shortcomings that we  are suffering from. Our negligence, our laziness, our disagreements,  different illegal actions that we commit, our materialistic tendencies,  our desire for power and our unwise actions: we ourselves are the source  of these shortcomings. The domestic factor harms this role model. 
The  other factor is related to the enemy. They magnify our flaws a hundred  times and make others notice them. And they falsely attribute other  flaws to us, flaws that we are not suffering from. What should we do?  First of all, we should take care of the domestic factor. We should  first address the things that we ourselves have caused. If we take care  of the domestic factor, Allah the Exalted will take care of the other  factor. That is to say, Allah the Exalted will neutralize the enemy's  propaganda.
In "Munajat ash-Shakeen" Imam Sajjad's  (a.s.) first complaint is about himself. Then he complains about the  enemy. We should first criticize ourselves, and then the enemy. You  should be cautious in this regard.
Who is  responsible for exercising this caution? How should it be practiced?  Primarily it is government officials, elites, prominent figures,  intellectuals, scholars, ulama and influential people who should watch  their behavior. As I said, we should be cautious about the desire for  power and materialistic gains. We should be cautious about discord,  creating uproar and acting against moral principles. In this meeting, I  would like to stress the issue of acting against ethical principles. 
The  atmosphere of insult and disrespect in society is one of the things  that Islam is opposed to. We must not let this happen. The atmosphere of  disrespect is against sharia, ethical principles and political common  sense. Nothing is wrong with criticism, opposition and courageous  expression of one's beliefs, but there should be no insult, disrespect,  cursing and other such things. And everybody is responsible in this  regard. Such things create uproar and shatter peace in society, and  today we need this peace. Such things also bring about divine wrath. I  would like to address this message to all those who make public  statements or write in newspapers or weblogs. All of them should know  that they are not doing the right thing. It is one thing to raise  objections, present reasons or condemn a wrong political or religious  idea, but it is quite another thing to do something that goes against  ethical principles, sharia and political common sense. I reject the  latter completely and decisively. It must not be done. Unfortunately  some people do these things. I would like to address this advice to our  youth in particular. Some of our youth - who are undoubtedly sincere,  faithful and good people - believe that what they are doing is a duty.  No, I would say what they are doing works against their duty. What they  are doing is the opposite of what they should do.
Of  course we should not ignore the enemy's attempts at infiltration, evil  deception and interference. As the Imam (r.a.) used to say, sometimes  the enemy infiltrates enthusiastic and faithful groups and attracts them  towards a certain direction or move. It is necessary to be cautious in  this regard and not fall into the trap of lack of vigilance resulting  from becoming emotional and failing to see the hands of the enemy.  Therefore, I ask our youth in particular to put an end to this  atmosphere of insult, backbiting, leveling accusations, cursing and  disrespect. If this atmosphere prevails, it will spread like a  contagious disease. And then you suddenly see such things happening  during Friday prayers - which are arranged for dhikr and attention to  God. And this is totally wrong. When somebody does not believe in a  particular Friday prayer leader, he walks out and refuses to listen to  his sermons or pray behind him. Similarly we see such things happening  in academic environments. This is wrong and harmful, and it goes against  the interests of the Revolution. These things harm the Islamic system,  which is moving forward in a firm manner. These things create discord in  the impressive structure of the Islamic system. 
I  would like to offer a piece of advice to our prominent figures as well.  My previous advice was addressed to the youth, but elderly people also  need advice. They should be cautious as well. Adopting appropriate  positions, saying the right thing, refusing to be influenced by false  news - these are a duty as well. Thousands of people are making efforts  in the Islamic Republic for the sake of God. They spend day and night  trying to do something that is in line with the Islamic movement. They  try to manage the affairs of the Islamic system and fulfill extremely  difficult duties. But it goes against our interests and it is totally  wrong to question all these people - including government officials and  others - when one hears a lie. All our people should be vigilant in this  regard, young and old. We are always in need of advice, both when we  are young and when we are old. 
I hope Allah the  Exalted will help all of us to preserve this successful and impressive  role model - namely, the Islamic Republic. By Allah's favor, we will  manage to pass on this role model to future generations, and we will be  able to hold up our heads before Allah the Exalted. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
