
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to Government Officials "/>
I  would like to congratulate you dear audience, the entire Iranian  nation, the great Islamic Ummah and all the people who fight for freedom  and justice throughout the world on the auspicious birthday  anniversaries of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), Muhammad ibn Abdullah, and  his honorable descendant, Ja'far ibn Muhammad al-Sadiq (a.s.). 
The  birth of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) was the beginning of a brilliant  dawn in the life of humanity. His birth made the people of his time see  the divine warnings with their own eyes. The castles of oppressive kings  collapsed. The fire temples went out. Divine power put an end to  superstitious beliefs in different parts of the world. The birth of the  Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) was a prelude to his be'that [being appointed as  prophet]. And this be'that was a blessing for all people throughout the  world. As the Holy Quran says, "And We have not sent you but as a mercy  to the Worlds." [The Holy Quran, 21: 107] The entire world has benefited  from his holy existence, and it will do so in the future as well. The  advances made by humanity, the scientific advances, the different areas  of knowledge and the great discoveries that have been made in the world  are all because of the emergence of the light of Islam in that amazing  historical era. And this blessing was made available to people. If  humanity had more knowledge, if humanity enjoyed a deeper understanding,  if humanity knew the Prophet (s.w.a.), if humanity was familiar with  Islam, if humanity knew the message of Islam, today the scene of history  would be a different scene. The ignorance of human beings and their  short-sightedness have made them fall behind. Definitely the more time  passes and the more human beings increase their capacity for  understanding, the more this brilliant sun will reveal itself. Then  human beings will benefit more from this light of life. And today we can  see the signs. 
Today the world is frustrated at  the heavy impositions of materialistic civilization, and it is looking  for a way out. Today the wave of Islamic Awakening that you see in  certain Islamic countries, such as Egypt and Tunisia, is a sign that  humanity is frustrated. When demons dominate the life of people - human  demons are more dangerous than jinn demons - and when the arrogant  powers of the world mislead the people of the world by interfering in  the personal life of people, their economy, their understanding and  their ideologies, life enters a dark void. This darkness goes against  the nature of human beings, and it awakens the human nature of people.  This is what is happening in the world. The western world, which is  enslaved by the hegemony of material power, is frustrated today. If we  Muslims could present Islam appropriately and if we could adjust our  behavior according to Islam, the entire world would definitely turn to  Islam. The problem is with us. We are the first people addressed by the  Holy Quran and the message of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). We should  reform ourselves. We should improve ourselves. 
Thanks  to Islam, nations have awakened today. One can see this awakening  throughout the world of Islam. The first effect of this awakening is the  expression of hatred toward the presence of the arrogant powers in the  region. The Americans are trying to keep away from the great popular  movement which can be seen today in certain Islamic countries. But this  is not possible. The primary purpose of these movements is to oppose the  hegemony of the arrogant powers over this region. It is the hegemony of  the arrogant powers that has humiliated the nations of the region. It  is the machinations and interference of the arrogant powers in the  region that have prevented Muslim nations from extending a hand of  brotherhood towards each other, from understanding each other, from  pooling their resources, from establishing a genuine Islamic Ummah. It  is necessary to put an end to this state of affairs. Nations should get  rid of the interference and hegemony of the arrogant powers. This is the  key to resolving the problems of the region. The problems of the  regional peoples and movements - governments which have moved away from  their people - are due to the presence of the arrogant powers,  especially America, in the region. The solution to the problems of the  region is that the peoples and governments should wake up to the reality  and prevent the great Satan from dominating and interfering in the  destiny of their nations. 
America's Middle  Eastern policies have turned the peoples of the region against their  governments. These policies have created a chasm between the peoples and  governments of the region. If the people of a country join their  government, no foreign power will be able to dominate that country. No  foreign power can resist the power of the people. What we see today in  certain Islamic countries is the presence of the people on the scene.  When the people are present on the scene, the sword of the superpowers  becomes blunt. Then the superpowers cannot bully the people. The  superpowers help their friends and mercenaries dominate the people -  bully the people. When the people step into the arena, their governments  receive support, providing that their governments join their people.  This is the solution to the problems of this region. 
Today  the fake Zionist regime is like a cancerous tumor in the region, a  tumor that has plagued the region. The arrogant powers have focused all  their efforts on safeguarding this cancerous tumor in the region. The  existence of this cancerous tumor in the region has caused war, discord  and wrong policies in the region. They are doing everything in their  power in order to safeguard this tumor and preserve their stronghold in  the region. Today we are witness to the signs and consequences of these  efforts: the reaction of the peoples of the region. When the people  awaken, they do not tolerate such conditions. 
I  believe that the movements which we see today in certain Islamic  countries are the reaction of the peoples to the long-standing  humiliation that the arrogant powers have imposed on them. Today they  have found an opportunity, and they have stepped into the arena.
Religious  scholars and political, scientific and academic figures have a very  heavy responsibility to shoulder. Today the people of these countries  are in need of the guidance of these prominent figures - political  figures, scientific figures, academic figures, religious figures. They  have a heavy responsibility. They must not let the system of arrogance  use the different tools they enjoy and hijack this great popular  movement. They must not let the system of arrogance steal this popular  movement. They must be vigilant. They should guide people towards the  goals and ideals which are lofty for all countries. If this happens, the  region will have a bright future - the future of the Islamic Ummah will  be bright.
There are about 1.5 billion Muslims in  the world. In terms of our strategic position and our natural  resources, we Muslims enjoy a very sensitive position in the world. But  it is others who are ruling us. It is others who determine our destiny.  They make decisions about our oil and our governments. This state of  affairs must be transformed, and there is no doubt that it will be so.  The signs of this transformation are clearly visible today, and Islamic  Awakening is one of these signs. 
Islam tells its  followers: "Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, and those with him are  firm of heart against the unbelievers, compassionate among themselves.  You will see them bowing down, prostrating themselves, seeking grace  from Allah and pleasure. Their marks are in their faces because of the  effect of prostration." [The Holy Quran, 48: 29] These are the  characteristics of the Islamic Ummah. Reliance on God, remembrance of  God, engaging in dhikr, humility before God - these are the signs of the  spirituality that members of the Islamic Ummah enjoy. Islam educates  such people. Its followers are humble before God and kind towards their  religious brothers, but they stand firm like a mountain against  oppressors and arrogant people. "That is their description in the Torah  and their description in the Gospel - like as sown corn that sends forth  its shoot and strengthens it and rises firm upon its stalk, delighting  the sowers." [The Holy Quran, 48: 29] These are the developmental stages  of the Islamic Ummah. It rises from under the ground, grows, thrives  and becomes strong, "delighting the sowers". Even those who prepared the  ground for its growth are surprised. It is the hand of divine power  that helps human beings grow like this. "That He may enrage the  disbelievers with (the sight of) them." [The Holy Quran, 48: 29] When  the arrogant enemy looks at the faithful individual educated by Islam in  this way, he is understandably enraged. This is how we should act. We  should reform ourselves. We should adjust our life according to the Holy  Quran. We should adjust our behavior towards friends, enemies and  arrogant powers according to the Quranic plan. Allah the Exalted has  promised that He will reward those who act like this, and this reward  will be offered both in this world and in the hereafter. In this world  the reward includes glory and the divine beauties and blessings which  have been made available to human beings. And paradise is the reward in  the hereafter. 
This is the path that you dear  people of Iran are treading. By Allah's favor, you will continue  treading this path. Fortunately we see that today Muslim nations from  different parts of the world of Islam are gradually moving towards this  path. Allah the Exalted says: "And the end is for the God-fearing." [The  Holy Quran, 7: 128] If we practice fear of God as a principle in our  actions, there is no doubt that ultimate victory will belong to the  Islamic Ummah. And by Allah's favor, this future is not far away. 
I  hope Allah the Exalted will enable all Muslim nations and the Islamic  Ummah - particularly the elites and influential figures of the Islamic  Ummah - to benefit most from the teachings of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.)  and the Holy Quran. I pray to Allah the Exalted to bestow His bountiful  blessings on our magnanimous Imam who opened up this path in front of us  and on our dear martyrs who sacrificed their lives on this path. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
