
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Address to Participants of International Islamic Unity Conference"/>
 
I  really enjoyed the comments that our dear brothers made. I wish there  was more time and I could benefit from the comments of the other  brothers as well. When I hear such comments from you, once again I can  visualize the greatness of Islam, Islamic teachings and the victory of  Islam.
Today's meeting and the conference you are  holding are arranged in the name of unity - unity in the world of Islam  and among Muslims. Of course unity is the central issue. If Muslims are  truly united, most of their problems will be resolved. We should all  make efforts to make hearts, and not just statements, move closer to  each other. When hearts get closer to each other, actions will converge  as well. 
Today the world of Islam is at a  historic stage. We need to become familiar with this stage. We must not  turn our attention away from this stage. Such a situation has never  existed in the past 30 years - ever since the victory of the Islamic  Revolution in Iran. When I call this a stage, I do not mean that the  world of Islam has been calm during the past 30 years. It does not mean  that the world of Islam has been silent and indifferent. It is my belief  - and it is definitely a fact - that over many years the movement of  luminaries and reformers, the blood of selfless individuals, the  teachings of intellectuals and finally the Islamic Revolution in Iran  have affected the world of Islam. They have transformed hearts. They  have illuminated the paths. As a result, the necessary motives have  accumulated over time, and they are manifesting themselves at this  opportunity. This stage is an important stage. It can help us resolve  the problems of the world of Islam. It can also create other problems if  we fail to develop appropriate knowledge of this stage and make use of  the opportunity. 
What has happened is the  presence of millions of people on the scene. This is a unique event. It  was this movement that managed to save Iran in the Islamic Republic. If  parties, political groups and prominent figures had stepped into the  arena instead of millions of ordinary citizens, such an effect would not  have been produced. The presence of millions of ordinary citizens  produces an effect that cannot be produced in any other way. Of course  the presence of millions of people on the scene is impossible in the  absence of strong faith. Stepping into the arena, staying there until  the ultimate result is achieved and safeguarding the ultimate result -  these things require religious faith. 
Somebody  mentioned the French Revolution in this meeting. The French Revolution  was a popular movement, and it achieved victory. But that victory was  not safeguarded. The French Revolution took place in the year 1789. In  the year 1800 - that is to say, 11 years after the French Revolution -  another monarchy was re-established in France. Napoleon came to power as  if there had been no revolution. After Napoleon died, members of the  same royal family who had been removed by the French Revolution -  namely, the Bourbons - came to power again. For many years the right to  rule was passed on from one monarch to another. Therefore, the people of  France gave rise to the French Revolution, but they failed to safeguard  it. This is a very important point. Thanks to religious faith, thanks  to Islam and thanks to the fact that the spirit of the Quran was  constantly instilled into the hearts of our people, we managed to  safeguard our Revolution. This is what can ensure the survival of  movements, their continuation and their victory. This must happen. 
Today  the people are present on the scene - in Egypt, in Tunisia, in some  other parts of the world. It is necessary to manage this public  presence. The enemies are trying to present this movement as a  non-Islamic movement. This is wrong. The movement is definitely Islamic.  The historical background of Egypt shows this. The current Egyptian  movement shows this. The slogans shouted by the people and their  participation in Friday prayers show this. Therefore, the movement is  definitely Islamic although the enemies are trying to prevent this  Islamic characteristic from being consolidated in Egypt or in other  places. It is necessary to strengthen this movement. 
America  is the root of the problem in the world of Islam. The presence of the  arrogant powers and colonialists in the world of Islam has always been  the biggest blow to Muslim nations' Islamic and national identity. From  the east of the world of Islam, from Indonesia, Malaysia and India to  Africa - colonialists have been present in every part of the world of  Islam. Their presence has weakened Muslim nations, shed their blood and  undermined their determination. Today America is the main arrogant and  colonial power: the rest are on the margin. The presence of America is  the greatest problem. Today the presence of America is more important  than all other problems of the world of Islam. This problem should be  solved. It is necessary to push America out of the arena. It is  necessary to weaken it, and fortunately it has already been weakened.  Today's America is different from the America of 20 or 30 years ago.  Today America is very weak, and it is necessary to keep it that way. We  must not lose hope. 
The early Islamic era is a  model for us. I am not claiming that all the events of our time are  identical to the events of the early Islamic era. No, the world has  changed. Forms and motives have changed, but the early Islamic era is  like a very complex and artistic picture in which one can see different  historical stages of the life of the Islamic Ummah until today and until  the end of time. If a person compares each part of this picture with  his own time, he would realize the similarities. 
Notice  that when faced with the enemy, there are two kinds of reactions: "And  when the hypocrites and those in whose hearts was a disease began to  say: Allah and His Messenger did not promise us (victory) but only  deception. And when a party of them said: O people of Yathrib, there is  no place to stand for you (here), so go back." [The Holy Quran, 33:  12-13] This is one reaction when faced with such events. "And when the  believers saw the allies, they said: This is what Allah and His  Messenger promised us, and Allah and His Messenger spoke the truth, and  it only increased them in faith and submission." [The Holy Quran, 33:  22] This is another reaction. Both reactions are related to the same  event. They are both related to the Battle of the Trench. When some  people look at the Battle of the Trench, they say, "Allah and His  Messenger did not promise us (victory) but only deception." Some others  say, "This is what Allah and His Messenger promised us, and Allah and  His Messenger spoke the truth, and it only increased them in faith and  submission." This is an important point. This shows our current  situation. 
There are two kinds of people. Some  people are intimidated when they see the power of America, when they see  its military power, when they see its diplomatic power, when they see  its power of propaganda, when they see its huge sources of money. They  say, "We cannot do anything. Why should we waste our energy?" There are  such people living among us. We had such people among us during the  Revolution as well. We had to deal with people who used to say, "Why all  this trouble? Just settle for a minimum and be done with it." Some  people were like this. 
In contrast, there are  other people who compare the power of the enemy with the power of Allah  the Exalted. They compare the glory of the enemy with the glory of God.  Then they see that the enemy is nothing compared to God. They also have  faith in the divine promise. This is an important point. Allah the  Exalted has promised, "Surely Allah will help him who helps His cause."  [The Holy Quran, 22: 40] This promise is definite, and it has been  repeatedly emphasized. If we have faith in the divine promise, we will  act in a certain way. And if we suspect the divine promise, we will act  in a different way. Allah the Exalted has specified those who suspect  His promise: "And (that) He may punish the hypocritical men and the  hypocritical women, and the polytheistic men and the polytheistic women,  the entertainers of evil thoughts about Allah. On them is the evil  turn, and Allah is wroth with them and has cursed them and prepared hell  for them, and evil is the resort." [The Holy Quran, 48: 6] Such  "entertainers of evil thoughts about Allah" exist today as well. God  also says, "Nay, you rather thought that the Messenger and the believers  would not return to their families ever, and that was made fair-seeming  to your hearts and you thought an evil thought and you were a people  doomed to perish." [The Holy Quran, 48: 12] Distrust of God causes  people to stop moving forward and making efforts. If we trust God, we  can move forward. 
We trust God, and Allah the  Exalted has not done anything to undermine this trust. During the past  33 years, Allah the Exalted has treated us the way we believe He treats  believers. We had a lot of problems. We emerged victorious out of all  these problems. An economic siege is not something trivial, and it has  never been trivial. We rose above the siege. Recently they told us that  they would stop selling gas to our country. Our country exports oil, but  it imports gas. They told us that they would stop selling gas to our  country. This is just an example. There are hundreds of such examples.  Our experts started making efforts while relying on God, and we became  self-sufficient in gas in less than a year. They imposed an eight-year  war on us. They forced us to fight a spiteful and evil enemy like Saddam  Hussein, and they did everything in their power to support and defend  him. Thankfully we managed to rise above this situation. 
We  made progress in all areas relying on God. We have made progress in the  arena of science as well. The issue of nuclear technology was mentioned  [as an example] in this meeting. By Allah's grace, we managed to make  progress in nuclear technology. Today westerners are creating uproar,  but they do not know all the details. They level allegations. They speak  against us. They broadcast propaganda. They exert pressure on us. But  they cannot do anything to stop us. The passage of time is to our  benefit. We are making constant progress, and they are just making  uproar. This is what happens when you enter the arena relying on God. 
Two  or three years ago the youth who are working on nuclear technology  persistently demanded a meeting with me. They set up an exhibition in  this Hussayniyyah so that I could see their achievements up close. I  went there, and I saw that everybody was young and faithful. There was a  time when they thought that anybody who enters the arena of modern  sciences and becomes an expert should be indifferent to religion. What I  saw was the opposite. All of them were faithful and sincere youth. They  were all interested in religion. The same is true of different sectors  of our country. This is what we have experienced, and this experience is  at the disposal of the world of Islam. 
Of course  Egypt and other Muslim countries are thankfully full of Islamic  concepts and teachings. I am familiar with the Islamic teachings that  have been prevalent in Egypt during different eras. As I said in the  recent Friday prayer sermons, the Egyptian nation was the first to  become familiar with western culture - Napoleon introduced western  culture into Egypt. It was also the first Muslim nation to realize and  confront the flaws of this culture. Sheikh Muhammad Abdu, Sayyid Jamal  and others had chosen Egypt as their stronghold, and they were the first  to face and fight western culture. Afterwards, Egypt and many other  Arab countries thankfully became a center for development of Islamic  thoughts, and they were useful to Islam in its entirety. 
Today  the Egyptian people are present in the arena. Efforts should be made in  order to prevent the enemy from hijacking and diverting the movement of  the Egyptian people. Efforts should be made to prevent the enemy from  leaving a vestige of taghut and the pharaonic regime in Egypt, which may  gradually spread throughout the country. It is necessary to be vigilant  in this regard. This is the duty of the Egyptian people as well as the  entire world of Islam. 
It is necessary to  eliminate discord among Muslim nations. The first effect of Islamic  unity is that Muslim nations should sympathize with each other. When a  Muslim nation is happy, other Muslim nations should also feel happy.  When a Muslim nation is sad, other Muslim nations should feel sad. When a  Muslim nation is in trouble, other Muslim nations should share in their  trouble. When a Muslim nation asks for help, other Muslim nations  should rush to its aid. This is our duty. We believe in this divine  promise. We believe that "those who strive hard for Us, We will most  certainly guide them to Our paths." [The Holy Quran, 29: 69] And Allah  the Exalted will undoubtedly help faithful people. 
We  should all appreciate such meetings. This heartfelt closeness is very  valuable. The Shia-Sunni disagreements are the things that the enemies  of Islam want to emphasize today. Those who speak about Shia and Sunni  Islam and the differences do not believe in what Shia or Sunni Muslims  say. They believe neither in the Islamic luminaries of the past, nor in  contemporary religious scholars. They have other goals. It is necessary  to rise above all these things and restore unity. By Allah's favor,  unity will prepare the ground for the victory of the world of Islam.
Once again I would like to welcome the dear brothers. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
