
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Address to Air Force Commanders and Pilots"/>
Dear  brothers and devoted and hardworking commanders of the Air Force of the  Islamic Republic of Iran's Army, welcome. I hope Allah the Exalted will  help you and give all of you the opportunity to increase the dignity of  the Air Force - which has thankfully been obtained through numerous  efforts - and the dignity of the Air Defense Command. I hope today's  meeting with you dear people in this Hussayniyyah, the good comments by  the honorable commander and the significant and beautiful song which was  performed by the dear youth will be memorable for all of us.    
The  19th of Bahman - which started with a brave move [Air Force pledging  allegiance to Imam Khomeini (r.a.)] by the Air Force in the year 1357  and went down in history - is a significant and meaningful day. In fact  the brave brothers who entered the arena together with the people made  two important achievements. First, they created an identity for the  Islamic Republic of Iran's Army. They presented a novel identity which  was not familiar to the people up until that day. As far as different  governmental organizations are concerned, the people often see the  surface. The surface did not look very good at that time. There were  many faithful, independent and liberated people in the Islamic Republic  of Iran's Army - people who used to cherish the same ideals as the  Iranian nation. They used to aspire to the same ideals. But they needed a  few opportunities to prove themselves. The Army enjoyed such a great  capacity, and the people did not know about it. The movement by the  young members of the Air Force defined a new identity for the Army. This  is an important issue. Later on this identity was further strengthened  over the following years - during, before and after the eight-year  Sacred Defense Era. What I am trying to say is that the brilliance and  prominence of this identity increased even more over the following  years.
Creating movements for change was the  second outcome of that move. A living human being acts as an agent of  change and affects the environment in which he lives. His progressive  movement leads to other [Air Force pledging allegiance to Imam Khomeini  (r.a.)] progressive movements. This is what happened at that time. There  is no doubt that the move - which was made on the 19th of Bahman before  the Imam (r.a.) in Alavi School on Iran Street - had an effect on what  happened on the 22nd of Bahman. On the nights of the 21st and 22nd of  Bahman I heard and saw some people shouting in the streets which led to  the Imam's residence. They did this in order to wake up the people who  were sleeping in their homes. They said that the young members of the  Air Force - the Homafaran and the commanders - were in danger because  they had been attacked. This is very significant. That move led to this  great movement. It sparked new activities and created a new spirit.
This  is just an example - the situation of only one part of our society  which shows the general mood in our society. The country was saved  through this move. This great country, with this cultural background and  with all these material and spiritual capacities, was trapped in a  frustrating situation. This is a bitter fact which has not been  appropriately explained yet, and it was caused by the interference of  different people and the existence of different conflicts, disagreements  and issues. The country was trapped in a frustrating situation. It had  been humiliated. It had been insulted by the bullying and domineering  powers of the world. It had been sidelined. Our great and glorious  country which enjoys deep Islamic faith did not have any influence on  the region. This was because the millstone of foreign hegemony was  weighing it down. Our nation put an end to this nightmare. The movement  of the Iranian nation on the 22nd of Bahman - and during the events that  led to the 22nd of Bahman - was such a movement. 
I  have repeatedly said that looking back on the past 32 years, stability  and resistance seem to be the most important issue regarding our  Revolution today. That is to say, we insisted and did not take back what  we had said. Insistence on values is an honor for a nation and a  community. Values are what we must insist on. It is necessary to  safeguard values. Islam has been the most important value for our  nation, and it will be the most important value in the future as well.  There is independence in Islam. There is freedom in Islam. There is  material progress in Islam. There is national unity in Islam. There is  the blossoming of talents in Islam. All these things are included in  Islam. This is why the Imam (r.a.) used to insist on the phrase "Islamic  Republic". The reason behind insisting on the republican aspect is that  relying on the people is an important point. Spreading the rule of  Islam over a society is not possible in the absence of public faith.  Therefore, the presence, votes, decision and involvement of the people  is a crucial point, hence the phrase "Islamic Republic". We should  preserve this. We need to keep this flag flying. If we manage to get  closer to the depth of this significant phrase, our achievements will  increase on a daily basis. And this requires intensified effort and  labor. Fortunately this year, one can see the effect of intensified  effort and labor on different organizations of the country. If this  happens, the Iranian nation will turn into a model. The Islamic Republic  will turn into a model. It is not necessary for nations to say that  Iran is their model. It does not matter whether they say this or not.  The important point is that this revitalizing wind should blow over  other places and inspire people to take action. And this has already  happened. 
The great movements that you see in  some countries have not suddenly emerged out of nowhere. Different  motives, wishes and understandings accumulate over time and manifest  themselves at an appropriate point in time. Today these movements have  only manifested themselves. The necessary motives, understandings and  wishes have accumulated over the past years. And the people of Iran and  the officials in charge of the Armed Forces have played a significant  role in this regard. It is necessary to keep this in mind. 
Today  we are in the middle of the arena, and we have moved halfway along the  path. I do not want to say that we are at the beginning of our path.  Maybe from a long-term perspective, we are - in a sense - at the  beginning of our path. The important point is that we are treading our  path. It is necessary to continue the path. Some people start treading a  path, but they do not reach their goals because they fall by the  wayside or change their direction. Such people are not very different  from those who decide not to start treading the path. As far as the  final result is concerned, these two groups of people are not different,  as neither group achieves the desired result. Therefore, it is  necessary to move forward in a steady manner. And this depends on the  determination, faith and efforts of the people and the presence of the  youth. Fortunately you dear youth are in charge of different affairs of  the Armed Forces today. Everything depends on you. If the youth rely on  God and have self-confidence, they can perform miracles. All of our  daily life issues and all great achievements are divine miracles. It is  just that we are used to them, and we do not realize their miraculous  nature. These miracles depend on the determination, courage and  efficiency of the people involved. Therefore, it is necessary to be  persistent. 
Let us take a look at the factors  that stand in the way of progress. Undoubtedly lack of adherence to the  values is one of the things that stand in the way of progress. It is  necessary to keep values in mind. 
One of the  things that will definitely work against progress is discord - discord  among the people, discord among the government officials, discord among  different sectors of the system, discord between the government and the  people. The solidarity that the Revolution brought for us should be  safeguarded like our honor. One of the most important techniques that  the enemy utilizes in its soft war is to undermine unity and create a  chasm. They are making efforts to do this. They are trying to cause  discord between Shia and Sunni by instigating religious conflicts. They  are trying to cause ethnic discord among Persians, Arabs, Azeris, Kurds  and others. They are trying to cause regional and partisan conflicts.  They are trying to cause discord within and between different  organizations. 
It is necessary to confront all  these things with perfect vigilance, and this is the same thing that I  call insight. We should know where we are. We should know our  stronghold. There is a difference between the soldier who is  safeguarding a strategic stronghold and knows how sensitive his  stronghold is and how important his position and his job are, and the  soldier who is in the same stronghold but does not know how important  his stronghold is. The latter soldier may fall asleep. He may let down  his guard. He may abandon his stronghold. He may fight with the soldiers  who are safeguarding the same stronghold. We should know how sensitive  the position of the Iranian nation is. 
Today the  Middle East has awakened. The world of Islam has awakened. The era of  the domination of the superpowers is coming to an end. The superpowers  attacked this region due to its great resources and started the era of  colonialism, neocolonialism and colonialisms beyond those. This is a  fact. One day two superpowers - namely, America and the U.S.S.R. - used  to dominate all political affairs of the region. The region had been  carved up between the leftists and the rightists. They used to have  conflicts, and then they would reach a compromise. The superpowers which  were behind them - America and the U.S.S.R. - also used to compromise  with each other, and suddenly we found out that, for example, Egypt had  been sold! In fact it was a war between two camps. Then they sat around a  table and negotiated behind closed doors. All peoples, their rulers and  their interests used to be trampled underfoot.  
This  is no longer the case today. Today the peoples of the region are  witness to the gradual decline of the superpowers. With its impressive  cultural background and great resources, Islamic Iran is a pioneer in  this regard. Iran relies on Islam. Islam has been infused into the  hearts, souls and thoughts of this nation. It is necessary to preserve  this. This is very valuable. Each sector has its own role in this  regard. The Army has its own particular role, and within the Army, the  Air Force has another particular role.
I have  repeatedly quoted this hadith from the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.): "God bless  those who take on a responsibility and do it appropriately." The report  that I received from the Air Force - parts of which were read out by  the honorable commander - was a promising report. I receive such reports  on a regular basis. But what I want to say is that you should not be  satisfied with these achievements. Manufacturing the parts we need, the  issue of simulation, the issue of production, different kinds of  training - these are very valuable things. Management is very important,  both in the Air Force and in defense sectors. But do not feel  satisfied. See what the flaws are. If an athlete pays attention to his  strong and big muscles only and ignores his weak muscles, he will be  defeated in a sensitive situation. See what the flaws are, and try to  eliminate them. Everybody should do so in their own job. Try to improve  on a daily basis. Improvement has no limitations. No matter how much  progress we make, there will always be room for further progress and  improvement.
I have repeatedly told the dear  commanders of the Air Force as well as other parts of the Armed Forces  that there are shortcomings in different sectors: there are sanctions,  financial limitations and various other problems, but try to overcome  these problems. The best and smartest people are those who evaluate the  situation to see what advantages they enjoy, and then they make use of  those advantages. Otherwise, it is not acceptable to see the  shortcomings only and then give up. The shortcomings should not stop us.  The shortcomings should encourage us to explore our new capacities. For  example, two decades ago, who would have thought the Air Force would be  able to produce so many facilities for itself? The same is true of  other sectors as well. Two or three decades ago, who would have thought  we would be able to make such achievements in aerial, medical,  pharmaceutical, scientific and technological areas? But our youth made  determined efforts and made the achievements possible. We have made such  achievements that even our enemies acknowledge them today. Of course  they continue their enmity. They use our achievements as a tool to  further their anti-Iran and anti-Islam policies and to promote fear of  Islam and Iran. But they acknowledge the existence of these  achievements. 
What I am trying to say is that you  should not be discouraged by the shortcomings that exist in different  sectors. Try to utilize your undiscovered talents and your new  intellectual and physical capacities to make up for the shortcomings.  This is doable. 
They imposed sanctions on us in  certain industrial sectors. They thought their sanctions would put an  end to the activities of those sectors, but what happened was the  opposite. The sanctions caused our youth to start thinking of producing  what the enemy would not sell to us. They produced them. In certain  cases they even produced better, cheaper, lighter and more efficient  models. This is how you should move forward within the Air Force. This  applies to the honorable commanders, the officials in charge of  different sectors and the staff - especially you and the youth.  
I  pray to Allah the Exalted to bestow success on you. I hope the  immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam - who started this movement and  opened up this path in front of us - and the pure souls of our dear  martyrs, who sacrificed their lives on this path, will be satisfied with  all of us. I hope we will all benefit from the prayers of the Imam of  the Age.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
