
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Friday Prayer Address"/>
All  praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Two Worlds, Whom we praise,  from Whom we seek help, Whom we trust, from Whom we seek grace, and to  Whom we repent, and peace and greetings be upon His beloved and noble  one, His best among creation, guardian of the Secrets, disseminator of  His message, harbinger of His mercy, and admonisher of divine wrath, our  Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa Muhammad, and upon his  immaculate and infallible household, especially the one remaining with  Allah on earth. And greetings be upon the Imams of Muslims, supporters  of the oppressed, and those who guide the faithful. 
I urge the servants of God and myself to fear God.
I  would like to urge all you dear brothers and sisters, the honorable  worshippers and myself to observe piety. Today is the martyrdom  anniversary of Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha (a.s.). And a few days ago our  people commemorated the demise anniversary of the Holy Prophet of Islam,  Muhammad ibn Abdullah (s.w.a.), and the tragic martyrdom of Imam Hasan  al-Mujtaba. I would like to extend my condolences on these painful  events and great tragedies of history to you faithful people, to the  entire Iranian nation, to all Shia Muslims and to all Muslims across the  world. Allah the Exalted tells His Messenger, "O Prophet, be pious to  God". [The Holy Quran, 33: 1] Piety - the necessity of piety, observing  piety - is even addressed to the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). We should keep  God in mind. We should watch our actions, behavior, words and even our  thoughts. This is the meaning of piety. If piety is observed, all paths  will be opened up, and Allah the Exalted will support a nation that  observes piety.
This year's ten-day Fajr  ceremonies and this 22nd of Bahman are different because after years of  selfless efforts the people see today that the echoes of their yell -  their oppressed and powerful yell - can be heard clearly in other parts  of the world of Islam. 
The events that are  happening in North Africa, Egypt, Tunisia and certain other countries  have a different meaning for our nation. They have a special meaning.  This is what has always been called the occurrence of Islamic Awakening  due to the victory of the great Islamic Revolution of the Iranian  nation. This is becoming clear today. Therefore, this year's ten-day  Fajr ceremonies are important.
Today I will  mention a point about our Revolution in the first sermon, and in the  second sermon I will briefly discuss the events of Egypt and Tunisia.  Then, with the permission of you dear worshippers and by Allah's favor, I  will address all Arab Muslims of the region in Arabic.
What  I will say about our Revolution, about the great event caused by the  Iranian nation - which holds lessons for us - is primarily a picture of  the realities of the world so that we can see what the arrogant powers,  the colonialists, the global bullies and the hegemonic powers wanted and  what really happened, so that we can see what they were looking for and  what happened in reality. Then I will point out two characteristics of  our Revolution which are related to our times. 
Regarding  the first part - which is about presenting a picture of the current  situation and comparing it to what the global bullies were looking for -  I would like to say that the victors of the First and Second World  Wars, mainly consisting of a few European countries and America, had a  pre-determined policy for the important Middle East region. This was  because the Middle East is important in terms of its geopolitical  position as a region that connects Asia, Europe and Africa together. It  is also important in that its oil fields are among the biggest sources  of oil in the world. Oil is vital for all industrial powers that have  dominated the world. Moreover, in terms of its population, the Middle  East region is home to ancient and deep-rooted nations. Therefore, they  adopted a certain policy for this region. According to the policy, there  has to be countries and political units in the Middle East region that  enjoy five characteristics. First, they have to be weak. Second, they  have to be hostile to one another, and they should not be able to unite -  as a result, you saw that they followed the policy of strengthening  Arab nationalism, Turkish nationalism and Iranian nationalism for many  years. Third, their rulers have to be politically obedient and give in  to the western powers. Fourth, they have to be consumers from the  economic point of view - that is to say, they have to spend on imports  and consumerism the money that they earn from selling their oil at a  very low price so that western companies can boost their business.  Fifth, they have to be scientifically backward, and they should not be  given the permission to make scientific progress. These are just general  points. It would really take a book to explain them. How did they used  to prevent scientific progress in our country and certain other  countries? They wanted the nations of this region to blindly imitate the  Europeans in cultural areas. They wanted the nations of the region to  be completely superficial and settle for a kind of religion that is  personal and possibly ceremonial. This was the picture that they had in  mind, and they prepared policies to achieve this goal. Maybe western  strategists spent thousands of hours to study this issue. Maybe they  spent thousands of hours to think about it and make plans. They deployed  their agents in Middle Eastern countries and used them to do what they  wanted to do. This analysis can help us to appropriately understand Reza  Shah's behavior, Mohammad Reza Shah's behavior and the behavior of  Turkey's Mustafa Kemal and many others. 
This was  their plan, and they were successful. Until before the victory of the  Islamic Revolution, they were successful except in certain eras in the  case of certain issues. They were unsuccessful only for short periods of  time - for example, a populist government came to power in Egypt for a  few years, and the same thing happened in Iran and other places in one  form or another. However, generally speaking, they absolutely made  progress in all these areas until before the Revolution. But suddenly a  great event, a great explosion took place which completely ruined their  situation. A scholarly, prominent, wise, mujahid, courageous and  risk-taking man, a charismatic religious scholar called Imam Khomeini  (r.a.), emerged among the people of Iran, and the emergence and presence  of this great man was indeed an act of God. This event had been  pre-ordained by God. And the people of Iran were prepared. They welcomed  the event and willingly accepted the dangers. They stepped into the  arena. They laid down their lives and gave up their wealth. They emerged  victorious out of the divine test. As a result, the Islamic Revolution  took place. All these calculations were ruined. The Islamic Revolution  started strong in Iran and continued the same way. That is to say, it  was not the case that an excitement was created in the first few years  and then it blew over. No, the Revolution continued. There are a few  points regarding this permanence that I will discuss later on.
The  Imam stood firm like a mountain, and the nation supported him firmly.  The camp of the enemy - it was not just one enemy: the enemy was a camp -  tried as hard as it could. It did whatever it could: from street  fighting, to ethnic conflicts, to military coups, to the eight-year  imposed war, to economic sanctions, to starting the impressive machine  of psychological warfare over the past 32 years. It is 32 years now that  psychological warfare has been going on against the Iranian nation,  against the Revolution and against the Imam. They lied. They leveled  allegations. They spread rumors. They tried to foment discord. They  tried to divert our people from their paths.
The  primary goal that they were pursuing was to crush the Revolution and  overthrow the Islamic Republic. The first goal was to overthrow the  government. The next goal was to transform the Revolution in case they  failed in their attempt to overthrow the Islamic Republic. That is to  say, the goal was to destroy the nature and the spirit of the  Revolution, but let it keep its surface form. They made a lot of efforts  in this regard. The fitna of the year 1388 was the latest scenario that  they played out. In fact it was another attempt. Some people inside the  country fell for this plot because of their passions and their love for  power and other such spiritual maladies which are caused by human  passions. I have repeatedly pointed out that the designers and the  masterminds were and still are outside our borders. Some people  cooperated with them inside the country - some knowingly and some  unknowingly. This was the second goal.
The third  goal that they have been pursuing is to make the Islamic Republic use  weak and vulnerable elements who can be influenced - that is, if the  Islamic Republic stays in power. They want to put such people in charge  of the country's affairs and only deal with them. Ultimately, they want  to create and keep in power a government that is weak and obedient, a  government that does not have enough power, a government that would not  stand up against America. These are the goals.
All  these measures and all these courses of action have failed so far. They  have been unsuccessful so far. Of course they have made a lot of  efforts. They have adopted various courses of action, and I will mention  some of them in my speech today. They did not spare any effort, but  they were not successful because the people were vigilant. We have good  elites in our society. We have good people. We have good government  officials. Thankfully the enemy has not been able to realize its goals  so far. The Revolution has continued its path and has moved forward.
What  happened during the Revolution? Notice that these are important points.  The Revolution that took place in Iran caused some changes which are  fundamental in terms of their depth. It is on the basis of such changes  that one can push society forward and make far-reaching changes. These  essential pillars were firmly built.
I would like  to mention a few of the changes that were made. Of course everybody  knows these things. We all know them. They are right in front of our  eyes. But Allah the Exalted points out the existence of the sun in the  Holy Quran. "I swear by the sun and its brilliance." [The Holy Quran,  91: 1] The sun is in front of our eyes, but Allah the Exalted swears by  the sun in order to attract our attention to this obvious and huge  entity. In the same way, we have to pay attention to the great phenomena  that surround us. Therefore, the purpose of pointing out these things  is to turn our attention to them. 
First of all,  before the Revolution the government which was ruling our country was  deeply opposed to Islam. They were not very strict about Islamic  appearances, but they were after destroying the roots and essence of  Islamic faith of the people. In this regards I have many examples,  proofs and memories in mind, but there is not enough time to mention  them. The Revolution turned around the system of government and made  Islam the pivot of managing the country. The Revolution made Islam the  pivot of management. Islamic rules are the criteria for rejecting or  accepting the laws of the country and the standard for judging the  performance of the executive officials of the country. 
The  country was politically dependent before the Revolution. That is to  say, the government - both Mohammad Reza Shah and different governmental  organizations - obeyed America. They were just waiting for America to  make a move. Again, there is overwhelming evidence in this regard. Dr.  Amini traveled from Iran to America in order to convince the Americans  to let him be the prime minister of Iran. When he came back, he became  prime minister! After a couple of years the Shah - who was opposed to  Dr. Amini - made a trip to America and convinced the Americans to remove  him. The Shah came back and removed him! This was the situation of our  country. In order to install a prime minister, the Shah who was the head  of the country needed the agreement and approval of America. In the  case of many issues the Shah used to invite the American and English  ambassadors to his palace in order to discuss his decision with them. If  they did not agree, the decision was not implemented. This is what  political dependence means. They obeyed America, and before America they  obeyed England. It was the English who brought Reza Khan to power. When  they realized that he was no longer useful to them, they fired him.  They forced him out of the country and put his son in power. This was  our situation before the Revolution.
The  Revolution came and brought full political independence for the country.  That is to say, today in this vast world there is not even a single  power among the superpowers which can claim its will has the slightest  effect on the will of the government officials or the Iranian nation. In  particular, this issue - namely, resistance, independence, political  dignity - is the most attractive thing for nations. When you notice that  nations feel respect for the Iranian nation, [you should pay attention  to the fact that] a major portion of this respect is related our  political independence.
Monarchy was the system of  government before the Revolution. Democracy is the opposite of  monarchy. In a monarchy the people do not have any role in government.  In a democracy the people are in charge of everything. Government was  hereditary before the Revolution. Rulers used to determine their  successors before they died. That is to say, the people had no role in  government. Whether they liked it or not, they had no choice but to  accept their government. Thanks to the Revolution, the people can now  choose their government. The taste and will of the people play a  determining role. Before the Revolution the system of government was  security-based dictatorship - harsh and dark dictatorship. I remember  that a friend of mine came to Mashhad from Pakistan to see me. He had  entered the country illegally. He said that once he was sitting in a  park with his friends and that they were reading a political leaflet in  the park. I was surprised. Reading a political leaflet in a park? Is  such a thing possible? I could not imagine that somebody could walk in  the street with a political leaflet in his pocket, a leaflet which  contains a few criticisms of the government. This was how the  security-based dictatorship of that time was like. The Revolution came  and created a free atmosphere for criticism and reform. This has been  the case throughout the past 32 years, even during the early years after  the victory of the Revolution.
Before the  Revolution the country totally depended on the west in science and  technology. I have said this on many occasions before. Some parts of our  military planes had been used up and had to be fixed, but they did not  allow the engineers of the Air Force to take it apart and see what it  was, let alone think of fixing it. They used to send that part to  America by plane and bring another one instead. Or if the part was  supposed to be fixed, they used to fix it in America. There was no  industry. Our industry was limited to simple assemblage, without any  innovations. After the Revolution scientific and national  self-confidence was created in the country. We witnessed the emergence  of so many scientists - prominent and great scientists - in different  fields. Today there are very good scientists inside the country who have  few equals in the world. Our scientists moved forward, and they were  mostly young.
Iran had no influence over global or  even regional issues before the Revolution. It had been humiliated. It  did not have the slightest effect on different issues. After the  Revolution the glory and greatness of this nation in the eyes of other  nations across the world and its influence on regional issues have  astonished the enemies. The enemies have been forced to admit this.  Today on foreign news websites they are constantly speaking about Iran's  influence and domination and its presence in regional issues. They  admit this, though with hostile motives.
Before  the Revolution we simply imitated [the west] in cultural areas. But  after the Revolution cultural invasion was recognized as a danger. There  are many such topics. These are essential points. When such foundations  are established in a country, then the nation can be hopeful that it  can build a new and great civilization on these foundations. Well, each  of these characteristics attracts the attention of the nations across  the world in one way or another. Other nations watch, they get  fascinated and they praise [us]. Of course the issue of political  independence and resistance against the bullying of the enemies is the  most important issue.
I would like to quote a  comment by a western official. I do not usually quote these western  politicians and prominent western figures, but this particular comment  is interesting. He says that there are two things that will violate and  break down all western red lines - namely, western absolutist and  universalist principles - if these two are passed from one Muslim to  another and if Muslim nations become aware of them. What are these two  things? This western intellectual says that one is the Constitution of  the Islamic Republic, which presents an advanced, modern, populist and  at the same time religious form of government to Muslims across the  world. This Constitution shows that it is possible to have a government  that is modern, advanced and completely religious. The Constitution  describes such a government. You admit that such a thing is possible:  this is the first point. The second point is the Islamic Republic's  record of scientific, economic and political achievements. And if this  Muslims find out about this, they will see that what was possible has  already happened. He says that if Muslim nations find out about this  possibility - which is both practical and has partially happened in  Islamic Iran - then it will not be possible to prevent revolutions from  happening. 
Today this has already happened. Of  course it is not a recent development - this has been going on for 30  years. A concept occurs to nations, and it gradually spreads and takes  root among them. Later on this concept manifests itself in the form [of  events] happening in North Africa and other parts of the world.
Of  course westerners themselves made some political mistakes. These  political mistakes helped the Islamic Republic. Notice that westerners  made a mistake in the case of the nuclear issue. In order to confront  Iran's nuclear activities, they magnified the nuclear issue. They  created uproar. They pressured the Islamic Republic to back down in the  case of the nuclear issue. It is seven years now that they have been  trying. Well, two issues became clear to people of the world during the  past seven years. The first issue is that Iran has managed to achieve  unexpected advances in nuclear technology. The second issue is that Iran  has stood firm in spite of all this pressure, and it will not retreat.  This was in the interest of the Iranian nation. Now the entire world  knows that America, Europe and their subordinates and followers did not  manage to overwhelm the Islamic Republic in spite all the pressure they  exerted on it. The entire world knows that they did not manage to force  the Islamic Republic to retreat. This characteristic was propagated by  the enemies of the Iranian nation. That is to say, they helped introduce  the Iranian nation to the world.
The same is true  of other issues as well. They created uproar and said that they were  planning to impose sanctions on gas so that we could not import it.  Well, we used to import gas and we still do. They said they were  planning to prevent Iran from importing gas. They created uproar in this  regard. Their analysts predicted that it would cause public turmoil in  our country. This caused our government officials to start thinking of  producing more gas. According to the report I have received, by Allah's  favor, the country will be completely self-sufficient in gas by the 22nd  of Bahman this year. According to the report, after that we will even  be able to export gas, and the necessary orders have already been  announced in this regard. The uproar they created ended up benefitting  the Iranian nation. And international observers saw this. The same is  true of all issues. It was true of the arms embargo they imposed on us  during the war. It was also true of their efforts to create parallel and  radical Islamic movements. They came and created a radical Islamic  movement in a neighboring country in order to challenge the Islamic  Republic. Now the same movement has turned into a plague for them. They  cannot stop it. They do not know how to set things right. The same is  true of creating religious conflicts. It is true of the fitna of the  year 1388. They created uproar and said that the Islamic Republic was  finished. They said that the Islamic Republic was plunged into internal  conflicts. They made many such statements. Then they saw the Iranian  nation overcome the problems. Last year the 9th of Dey and the 22nd of  Bahman were truly among "the Days of God". God has full control over  hearts. Allah the Exalted made hearts step into the arena, and the  Iranian nation showed its greatness. Whatever they do ends up harming  themselves, and it will be the same in the future as well. This is a  fact of the modern world. They wanted something, but what happened was  completely different. 
Now I would like to speak  about the second issue that I mentioned in the beginning. If we want to  determine the importance of a phenomenon and its success, we should see  how successful it has been in setting a model, how much it has resisted,  how stable it has proven to be and how steadfast it has been. The same  is true of revolutions. If a revolution is determined to influence the  minds and actions of others and become a model, it must have certain  characteristics. Stability and resistance are among the most important  characteristics. If a revolution enjoys these characteristics, it will  become a model for others. Otherwise, the events that spark in a certain  place and then die out will not be very successful in setting models  and inspiring others to follow their example. Our Revolution has not  been like this. Our Revolution has managed to be inspirational and has  set a model. And this is because of the stability and resistance of our  Revolution and its adherence to the main principles and foundations that  were introduced by the Imam (r.a.).
Our  Revolution was steadfast. I would like to mention a few examples in this  regard. One example is the Islamic qualities of the Revolution. The  Imam said at the beginning that our Revolution is Islamic and that it is  based on Islam. They stepped up their efforts to create uproar about  this in the world. They said that being Islamic was inconsistent with  being democratic. They said that being Islamic was the same as being  reactionary. They said that being Islamic equaled regression. They said  that Islamic rules cannot be implemented. They made many such comments.  And some people echoed their voice inside the country. They wrote books  and articles and they spread rumor in order to force the Islamic  Republic to retreat from adherence to Islam. The Islamic Republic stood  firm and did not surrender in the face of disinformation. Yes, we are  Islamic. We are proud of this, and we will prove that this is the way to  save humanity. The Islamic Republic yelled this out to the entire  world.  
Thirty two years have passed since the  Revolution. Take a look at our society. The behaviors are at least as  Islamic - if not more - as they used to be during the early days of the  Revolution. The youth did not see the Imam, they did not experience the  war and they do not remember anything about the victory of the  Revolution, yet their commitment to Islamic principles is stronger than  some of their elders. Our government officials are proud of being  Islamic. Of course the enemies have made a lot of efforts during the  past 32 years. There were even some people in the government who tried  to twist and turn the paths and to divert them away from the goals, but  they did not succeed. The Islamic Republic firmly adhered to its  principles. It firmly adhered to its Islamic foundations. This is one  example. 
The issue of democracy is another  example. The Imam announced at the beginning that the people should have  a say in the election of the Islamic Republic, in the formulation of  the Constitution, in the law that had been approved in the Assembly of  Experts and in presidential and parliamentary elections. The Imam stood  firm. Notice that 32 years have passed since the Revolution. Considering  the elections that have been held, we have had 32 occasions for public  presence - that is to say, one election a year on the average. The  people went to the ballot boxes and voted for their candidates. What  people want is very important. Tehran was being bombed during the war,  but the elections were not canceled. During the war the elections were  not canceled even in the cities that were being targeted with missiles  by Saddam Hussein's regime. In one of the parliamentary elections they  tried to delay the election because of certain political motives, but  they did not succeed. Until today the elections held by the Islamic  Republic have not been delayed even a single day. This is democracy. The  Imam demanded democracy on the first day, and the Islamic Republic  insisted on this democracy. It refused to give up democracy. Today our  government officials are elected by the people - from members of the  Assembly of Experts who are responsible for electing and removing the  Leader, to the President, to members of the Majlis, to members of  different councils. People with different political tendencies have been  voted into office. It was not the case that only people from one  particular movement have been elected so far. No, since the beginning up  until today, the presidents that have been voted into office differed  in terms of their political orientations in one way or another. But they  were all elected by the people.
Social justice is  the next example. The Imam announced that at the beginning. I would say  that social justice is more difficult than all other things.  Establishing social justice is more difficult than preserving democracy  and the other things that the Islamic Republic has done so far. It is a  very difficult task. I do not want to say that we have been able to  establish social justice in a perfect way. No, there is still a long way  to go. The kind of justice that Islam has demanded from us is very  different from what we have today in our society. But the movement  towards social justice did not stop. It continued, and it has gained  momentum on a daily basis. Today the movement towards social justice is  continuing with even more force than previous eras. One of the important  examples of social justice is creating equal opportunities for everyone  in the country. In political systems that are unaware of the essence of  social justice, they only focus on a particular social class or  particular parts of the country. But after the passage of 32 years since  the victory of the Revolution, we see that in the Islamic Republic as  we move along, this concept is highlighted more. Villages are taken care  of. Distant towns are taken care of. All these houses that are built in  villages, all these roads that connect villages and distant cities of  the country to one another, all these means of transportation, the  electricity, the drinking water, the telephone lines, the facilities for  daily life - all these things have been distributed all over the  country. 
As for the trips that our government  officials make to different provinces and cities of the country, the  people of some of these distant cities could not even imagine that one  day they would see even a junior government official. Now they see that  top government officials of the country travel to their cities. These  are essential issues. These things are very valuable. When a government  official goes to a particular place, he sees the problems and is  motivated to eliminate them. And this is establishment of social  justice. We are moving towards social justice. 
One  can see across the world that government officials live an aristocratic  life. When somebody gains power, becomes president or achieves a high  position in the government, his life takes a U-turn. This is not the  case in our country. Of course people like me must adjust our life to  the living conditions of the poorest classes of society. We have been  unsuccessful in this regard. We were not lucky enough. This has not  happened yet. But thankfully our government officials are living an  ordinary life, and sometimes their living conditions are worse than  those of ordinary citizens. These are very valuable. 
Distributing  money among the poor, building houses for villagers and the subsidy  redistribution law are great achievements. If the government officials  manage to implement the law well, it will prove to be very important.  Regarding the subsidies that the government used to provide for  electricity, there are people who use big chandeliers and there are  people who use only one or two light bulbs in their homes. Are these two  groups of people comparable? Rich people used to benefit more from the  subsidies. That was a kind of oppression. They want to prevent this  oppression. The same is true of the issue of bread, gas and other  things. We stood firm. The system firmly adhered to the slogan of social  justice.  
The next point is the fight against  the arrogant powers - not surrendering to the pressure exerted on us. We  are standing firm in this area as well. This was a difficult task, but  the Islamic Republic managed to do that successfully. After the victory  of the Revolution there were many people who used say, "Now that the  Revolution has achieved victory, let us go and settle our issues with  the Americans!" This meant that we had to criticize the anti-oppression  slogans of the Revolution. They used to encourage this. There were some  people in the past that were after this. That is to say, they wanted us  to join America. They wanted us to let our archenemy take us under its  wing. They wanted us to ask our archenemy for shelter, which meant we  had to keep silent about the issue of Palestine. It meant that we had to  ignore America's crimes in Iraq, Afghanistan and other such places. It  meant that we had to turn a blind eye to all the oppression by America  against the nations of the world. It meant that we had to keep silent  and not protest against these issues. Normalizing relations means that  the Iranian nation and its officials will not be able to protest  explicitly and express their opinion. Even worse, it means that the  Iranian nation and government officials will gradually be forced to  accept what they say. A lot of effort went into this stability and  resistance, but it was auspicious and it attracted divine blessings and  the attention of other nations. The insistence of you Iranian people on  the main slogans of the Revolution during the past 32 years led to a  great blessing: the world of Islam holds you in high regard. When your  government officials travel to different countries, they are warmly  welcomed. When estimating the popularity of political figures, your  government officials are placed at the top of the list. What the Iranian  nation did became a model, and today you can see the signs. This great  blessing and this characteristic were among the things that could not  have been proven except through the passage of time. 
Today  your voice is being echoed in Egypt. The US President whose term  overlapped with our Revolution had been interviewed a few days ago. He  had said that the voices which he hears in Egypt are familiar to him.  That is to say, what is currently heard in Cairo used to be heard in  Tehran when he was president. The world sits in judgment over these  things. Therefore, this year's ten-day Fajr ceremonies are important,  sensitive and lively. By Allah's favor, you dear people's rallies on the  22nd of Bahman will be added to all these achievements. 
"Surely  We have given you Kauthar [abundance]. Therefore, pray to your Lord and  make a sacrifice. Surely your enemy is the one who shall be without  posterity." [The Holy Quran, 108: 1-3]
All  praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Two worlds, and peace and  greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa  Muhammad, and upon his immaculate and infallible household, especially  upon the Commander of the Faithful, Seddiqat al-Tahera, Hassan, Hussein,  Ali ibn al-Hussein, Muhammad ibn Ali, Ja'far ibn Muhammad, Musa ibn  Ja'far, Ali ibn Musa, Muhammad ibn Ali, Ali ibn Muhammad, Hassan ibn Ali  and Hujjat al-Qaem al-Mahdi. And greetings be upon the Imams of  Muslims, supporters of the oppressed, and those who guide the faithful.  And I ask God to bestow forgiveness on you and myself.
I urge the servants of God and myself to fear God. 
Once  again I would like to urge all you dear brothers and sisters and myself  to observe piety. I will briefly discuss a few points about the events  that are happening in Egypt and Tunisia. These events are very  important. They are a real earthquake. If, by Allah's grace and favor,  the Egyptian nation manages to continue its movement, they will cause an  irreparable failure for the American policies in the region. Today the  Israelis are probably more concerned about these events than the  fugitive Egyptian or Tunisian officials. The Israelis and the Zionist  enemies are concerned more than anybody else. They know what a great  event will happen in this region if Egypt ends its alliance with them  and goes back to its genuine position - the prophecies of our  magnanimous Imam will be realized. Therefore, the events are extremely  important. In global analyses they try to divert attention from the main  cause of these uprisings. They point to economic and non-economic  issues, which of course had a role. But the main cause of this  impressive movement by the people - first in Tunisia and then in Egypt  where this movement reached its peak - is the feeling of humiliation  that has been created among the people due to the situation of their  leaders. The people were humiliated. They felt that they had been  insulted. This Mubarak of Egypt humiliated the Egyptian nation. 
  
First,  I would like to mention a point about Tunisia. The fugitive Tunisian  president, Ben Ali, was totally dependent on America. I have even  received reports according to which he was connected with the CIA - the  American intelligence agency. Just notice how difficult it is for a  nation to accept that its leader is officially a servant of American  organizations. And Ben Ali was extremely arrogant. He brutally ruled the  people of Tunisia for years. He acted against the interests of the  people and against religion. Tunisia is a Muslim country with a long  Islamic record, and it has offered luminaries to Islamic culture. When  the people wanted to go to the mosque during the reign of Ben Ali, they  had to have a special card. The government used to issue special cards  for entering mosques, and not everybody got one of those cards. The  government did not allow the people to go to the mosque. Even individual  prayers were banned in mosques, let alone congregational prayers. It  was prohibited to pray in public. Hijab was officially banned. Well,  Islam would understandably be one of the important motives of these  people. Therefore, you saw that as soon as this traitor left the  country, the situation totally changed. Female students went to  university wearing hijab. This is indicative of a deep-rooted Islamic  tendency. Western analysts want to deny this. They want to hide this. 
Dependence  on America was another cause, which is very important. The Americans do  not like to hear that dependence is the cause of the uprising of the  people first in Tunisia and then in Egypt - where the uprising reached  its peak. This is the truth of the situation. Of course only a  superficial change took place in Tunisia. Ben Ali fled from the country,  but his system is still in power. I hope the people of Tunisia have an  appropriate understanding of their situation. God forbid that the enemy  should manage to deceive them.
Now I would like to  speak about Egypt. Egypt is a very important country. I will briefly  discuss a few points in this regard. Egypt was the first Islamic country  that became familiar with western culture. It was in the late 18th  century that Egypt started to become familiar with western culture  before all other [Muslim] countries. Egypt was the first country among  Muslims countries that became familiar with European culture, and it was  the first Islamic country that stood up against that European and  western culture. It was the first Islamic country to realize the flaws  of this culture and stand up against it. Egypt was the best place that  Sayyid Jamal ad-Din - that great and courageous man who fought for Islam  - could find for his activities. Later on his students, including  Muhammad Abduh and others, continued his activities in Egypt. The  movement for Islam enjoys such a record in Egypt. The Egyptians have  great political and cultural figures - all of them freedom fighters.  Egypt became the leader of the Arab world in intellectual and political  areas. Arab countries used to follow the lead of Egypt for a long period  of time. Egypt became the leader of the Arab world. That country is  overflowing with the desire for independence and freedom. Of course the  Egyptian people were not provided with good opportunities, except for  short periods of time.
Egypt was the first or the  biggest country that entered into a war, together with Syria, for the  sake of the Palestinian issue. Other Islamic countries did not  participate in the few wars that they have fought against Israel. Egypt  deployed its soldiers, its army, its people and its sources of support  once in 1967 and another time in 1973. Of course they were not  successful. Egypt is such a country. It was considered a refuge for the  Palestinians. It was even a refuge for many revolutionaries from other  countries. For thirty years such a country has fallen into the hands of  somebody who is not only not a freedom fighter, but is also an enemy of  seeking freedom. He is not only not an anti-Zionist, but he is also the  companion, collaborator and confidant of the Zionists and their servant,  in a sense. A country whose flag of anti-Zionism used to inspire the  entire Arab world one day was trapped in such a situation that the  Israelis and the Zionist enemies started to rely on Mubarak's assistance  in all their activities against the Palestinians. He helped them. If  Hosni Mubarak had not helped the Israelis on the issue of Gaza, they  could not have besieged Gaza. The Palestinians were besieged in Gaza -  and they have been under siege for four years now. During the 22-day war  Palestinian men, women and children were burnt to death by the  Israelis, and their homes were destroyed. But they did not let aid  convoys help these people. Not only the people of Egypt but also people  from other countries - including people from our country -wanted to help  them through Egypt, but Hosni Mubarak did not let them.
This  was the situation of Egypt, which frustrated the people. The people of  Egypt feel humiliated because the current Egyptian regime supports  Israel and blindly obeys America. This is the main cause of the  movement. The Egyptians are Muslims. Their movement starts from Friday  prayer venues. Their movement starts from mosques. Their slogan is  "Allahu Akbar". The people are shouting religious slogans. The strongest  opposition movement in Egypt is an Islamic movement. The people of  Egypt want to get rid of this feeling of humiliation. This is the main  cause. Westerners do not let this analysis be promoted among nations and  affect global public opinion. They always refer to economic issues. Of  course it is a fact that the services of somebody like Hosni Mubarak to  America did not help Egypt move even one step closer to blossoming [and  development]. The population of Egypt is more than 70 million, and forty  percent of this population is below the poverty line. According to the  reports I have received, in the city of Cairo alone there are several  hundred thousand people who live in cemeteries. Of course I have also  heard that there are 2-3 million such people, but definitely there are  several hundred thousand people in Cairo who live in cemeteries.  Homeless people take refuge in cemeteries. The people are living in  difficult conditions. This means that the Americans did not even reward  Mubarak for his unquestioning services, and they are not rewarding him  today either. Whenever - by Allah's favor - he flees from Egypt, he can  be sure that the first gates that will be closed to him will be gates of  America. They will not let him in - just as they did not let in Ben  Ali, just as they did not let in Mohammad Reza [Pahlavi]. This is how  they behave. Those who are enthusiastic about being friends with America  and obeying it should pay attention to these examples. They are like  Satan. There is a dua in Sahifa al-Sajjadiyya which says when Satan  deceives me, he laughs at me as he turns away - he turns his back on me  and ignores me. The Americans act in the same way. They try to promote  their own interests by using such weak and wretched people.
Of  course the Americans are utterly confused. The Israelis are confused  even more. In the case of Egypt, they are looking for a remedy, and they  will not succeed in finding a remedy. They are deceiving people. They  claim to support the people. The Americans told him [Mubarak] that he  must step down and leave. This depends on how the people of Egypt will  act and what decision they will make.
I have written down a sermon [in Arabic] for the Arab brothers, and I would like to read it.
Greetings  be upon the members of the Islamic Ummah, wherever they are. Today a  great, impressive and historic event is happening in the world of Islam -  an event that can transform all the equations of the arrogant powers in  the region in favor of Islam and the peoples, an event that can restore  dignity and glory to Arab nations and the Islamic Ummah, an event that  can wipe off the dust of decades of oppressive and humiliating treatment  of these ancient and deep-rooted nations at the hands of America and  the west. 
This miraculous event was started by  the Tunisian people, and the great and brave Egyptian nation has made  this event reach its peak. The Arab world and the world of Islam are  waiting with bated breath - each for a different reason - to see what  Egypt will do, the Egypt that has been home to the geniuses of the past  century, the Egypt of Muhammad Abduh and Sayyid Jamal, the Egypt of Saad  Zaghloul and Ahmad Shawqi, the Egypt of Gamal Abdel Nasser and Sheikh  Hasan al-Banna, the Egypt of 1967 and 1973. They are waiting with bated  breath to see how long Egypt will hold up the flag of its determination.  If, God forbid, this flag is pulled down, a dark and gloomy era will  follow. And if it is carried to the peak and waved there, it will reach  the sky.  
The Tunisian nation managed to force  out its treacherous and anti-religion ruler who was loyal to America.  But it is a mistake to think that this is the desired end result. It is  not possible to overthrow a dependent system by forcing out the visible  pawns. If those pawns are replaced with other pawns, nothing will change  and the net of deception will be cast before the nation. During the  Islamic Revolution they tried several times to trap our nation in this  net, but our vigilant nation and its great and divine Leader detected  and foiled the plots of the enemy, and they continued their path to the  end. 
As for Egypt, the issue of Egypt is a unique  case because Egypt is a unique country in the Arab world. Egypt was the  first country in the world of Islam that became familiar with European  culture. It was the first country in the world of Islam that recognized  the threats posed by this culture and adopted a position against it. It  was the first Arab country that established an independent government  after the Second World War and defended its national interests when  nationalizing the Suez Canal. Egypt was the first country that rushed to  the aid of Palestine with all its power and was recognized throughout  the world of Islam as a refuge for the Palestinians. Sayyid Jamal ad-Din  was not an Egyptian, but he had no hope that his great concerns would  be understood in any Muslim country other than Egypt. The Egyptian  people proved their worth in the arena of religious and political  activities, and this went down in history. Muhammad Abduh and his  students, Saad Zaghloul and his supporters, were not reactionary and  inexperienced individuals. They were great, brave and vigilant geniuses,  and educating one such individual is enough to make a nation feel proud  of its worth. With this cultural, religious and political depth, Egypt  rightfully achieved a position to lead the Arab world. 
The  great crime of the current Egyptian regime was that it reduced Egypt  from that high position to the position of a pawn in its political games  in the region. The popular uprising of the great Egyptian nation is a  response to the great treachery which the dependent dictator committed  against his people. 
Today the uprising of the  Egyptian nation is hotly debated and different analyses are being  churned out. Everybody says something different, but anybody who is  familiar with Egypt clearly knows that Egypt is defending its dignity  and honor. The Egyptian nation has collared the traitors who have  destroyed its honor, the traitors who have allowed the honor of this  nation - which used to be at the peak of its glory - to be trampled upon  by the arrogance of its enemies. The position of Egypt on the  Palestinian issue is a clear example. Palestine has been the most  crucial issue of this region since decades ago, and the regional issues  are so complex that no nation can imagine disentangling its fate from  the issue of Palestine. And there are no more than two camps: there are  those who support Palestine and its righteous activities, and there are  those who join the opposing camp.  
The peoples of  the region have clarified their position since the beginning.  Therefore, when a government supports Palestine, it wins the support of  its people as well as the support of Arab and Muslim peoples. Egypt  experienced this in 1960s and 1970s. But when a government switches  allegiances and supports the opposing camp, the people turn their back  on the government. This chasm between the people and the government of  Egypt appeared after the disgraceful Camp David Accords. The Egyptian  people - who had rushed to the aid of Palestine in 1967 and 1973 and  laid down their lives and sacrificed their wealth for the cause -  gradually realized that their rulers had adopted such an extreme  position on supporting and obeying America that Egypt had turned into a  loyal allay of the usurping Zionist enemies. America's domination over  the rulers of Egypt ruined the past efforts of the Egyptian people to  support Palestine, and Egypt turned into the biggest enemy of Palestine  and the biggest supporter of the Zionists. 
This  was while Syria - Egypt's allay in the wars of 1967 and 1973 - managed  to maintain its independent positions in spite of different kinds of  pressure exerted by America. The situation of the dependent Egyptian  system became so bad that the Egyptian people saw for the first time in  their history that during the Israeli war against their brothers in Gaza  their government was in the camp of Israel. They realized that not only  their government was refusing to help the Palestinians, but it was also  extremely active in the enemy's camp. History will never forget that  Hosni Mubarak was a confidant and a collaborator of Israel and America  during the appalling siege imposed on the people of Gaza and during the  22-day war when the women, men and children of Gaza were being killed.  Just imagine how much the people of Egypt must have suffered during  those days. National TV once showed footage from the strong feelings  expressed by the people of Egypt. They were speaking with tears in their  eyes about their situation and how they are prevented from helping  their Palestinian brothers. How long could the faithful people of Egypt  tolerate this? What we see today in Cairo and in other cities of Egypt  is the explosion of the holy anger and the eruption of unexpressed  emotions that had accumulated over many years in the hearts of liberated  Egyptian men and women due to the behavior of the non-Muslim,  treacherous and puppet regime. 
The uprising of  the people of Egypt is an Islamic movement and a movement for freedom.  In the name of the revolutionary people and government of Iran, I salute  you Egyptian and Tunisian people, and I pray to God to bestow a perfect  victory on you. I am proud of you and your uprising. There is no doubt  that depending on the geographical, historical, political and cultural  features, popular uprisings in different countries have their own  idiosyncratic characteristics. And it is not reasonable to expect that  what happened during the great Islamic Revolution in Iran 30 years ago  will happen again in Egypt, Tunisia or any other Islamic country. But  there are certain things in common that may make the experiences of one  nation useful to another nation. The experiences that may prove useful  today are as follows:
 
1.	In any popular uprising the real war is  between wills. Either side that is more determined and tolerates the  hardships will definitely win. The Holy Quran teaches us, "(As for)  those who say 'our Lord is Allah' and then continue in the right way,  the angels descend upon them, saying: Fear not, nor be grieved, and  receive good news of the garden which you were promised." [The Holy  Quran, 41: 30] God tells His Messenger, "To this then go on inviting,  and go on steadfastly on the right way as you are commanded, and do not  follow their low desires." [The Holy Quran, 42: 15] The enemy is trying  to undermine your determination through coercion and deception. Take  care not to let your determination be undermined.
2. 	Your enemy tries to make you disappointed in achieving your goals. This  is while the divine promise says, "And We desired to bestow a favor  upon those who were deemed weak in the land, and to make them the Imams,  and to make them the heirs." [The Holy Quran, 28: 5] Have faith in the  repeated and unquestionable promise of God who says, "And surely Allah  will help him who helps His cause. Most surely Allah is Strong, Mighty."  [The Holy Quran, 22: 40]
3.	Your enemy mobilizes  its security mercenaries and sends them to confront you so that they may  frustrate the people by causing insecurity and turmoil. Do not be  afraid of them. You are more powerful than the mercenaries. You are at a  stage where God told the Messenger and his companions, "O Prophet, urge  the believers to war. If there are twenty patient ones of you, they  shall overcome two hundred, and if there are a hundred of you, they  shall overcome a thousand of those who disbelieve because they are a  people who do not understand." [The Holy Quran 8: 65] By relying on God  and trusting your motivated youth, you can overcome any kind of  insecurity and turmoil.   
 
4.	Unity and solidarity is an  important weapon that nations can use when confronted with superpowers  and mercenary rulers. Your enemy tries to undermine your solidarity with  different kinds of machinations. Discussing the points of disagreement,  pointing out misleading slogans, putting forward unreliable figures and  figures with bad records as a successor to the treacherous president -  these are among the efforts to generate motivation for discord. Preserve  your unity around the pivot of religion and around the pivot of saving  your country from the enemy's mercenaries. "And hold fast by the  covenant of Allah all together and be not disunited." [The Holy Quran,  3: 103]
5.	Do not trust the political and  hypocritical gestures of America and the west. They were supporting the  corrupt regime until a few days ago. But now that they have despaired of  keeping it in power, they are claiming to support the rights of the  people. Using this cover, they are trying to replace the pawns with  other pawns. And by bringing in new faces, they are trying to help those  who are connected with them dominate you once again. This is an insult  to the intelligence of nations. Do not tolerate them, and do not settle  for anything less than the establishment of a totally independent and  populist system that is faithful to Islam.
6.	 Religious scholars and the honorable scholars of al-Azhar - which is  famous for its brilliant record - should play a very prominent role. The  people who start their uprising from mosques and Friday prayer venues  and chant "Allahu Akbar" as their slogan - these people have higher  expectations of religious scholars, and their expectations are  legitimate.
7.	The Egyptian army - which enjoys  the honor of fighting at least two wars against the Zionist enemy - is  faced with a great and historic test at this stage. The enemy wants to  use the army to suppress the people. If, God forbid, such a thing  happens, the loss that will follow will be irreparable for the army. It  is the Zionists who should be afraid of the Egyptian army, not the  people of Egypt. Of course members of the Egyptian army who are from  among the people will finally join the people, and this sweet memory  will be revived in Egypt once again.
8.	Finally,  America, which has supported the mercenary rulers against the will of  the Egyptian nation for 30 years, is not in a position to enter into the  Egyptian issue as a mediator. In this regard, view all kinds of advice  and action by the Americans with suspicion, and do not trust them.
Dear  brothers and sisters, these are what we have experienced. I discussed  them with you as your religious brother and out of my religious  commitment. The enemy's propaganda outlets will continue shouting that  Iran wants to interfere, that Iran wants to convert the Egyptians to  Shia Islam, that Iran wants to export Vilayat-e Faqih to Egypt and other  such accusations. They have been telling such lies for thirty years in  order to keep Muslim nations isolated from one another and deprive them  of each other's help. And their mercenaries repeat their lies. "And some  of them inspire in one another plausible discourse through guile. If  your Lord willed, they would not do so. Therefore, leave them alone with  their devising." These machinations will never cause us to give up the  responsibilities that Islam has placed on our shoulders. "And God knows  my intention".  And may God forgive me and you.
