
<meta year="2011" title="Leader's Speech to People of Qom"/>
 
Dear  brothers and sisters, welcome. I would like to thank every one of you  who have travelled here and imbued this Hussayniyyah with your warm and  friendly presence and the signs of sincerity and love that I have always  noticed among the people of Qom. 
I am grateful  to God and I am happy that this meeting is being held shortly after my  trip to the city of Qom. The dear people of Qom, the youth of Qom, men  and women of Qom, demonstrated such signs of commitment and loyalty to  Islam and the Islamic system and such signs of insight that even the  enemies of the Iranian nation could not deny.
It  is always possible to use the reactions of enemies to determine the  importance of things. This is one way to determine the importance of  matters, actions and issues. Imagine that you are walking on the street.  If somebody walks into you accidentally, you do not show any reactions.  But if somebody attacks you with his or her fists, you do something in  response. You react. The harm that is done to you is insignificant in  the former case, but it is important in the latter. Reactions can show  significance or insignificance of things. 
One can  see that this principle applies to all events of the Revolution,  including big issues, small issues, daily matters and large-scale and  prevalent issues. The reactions that were shown by the world of kufr and  arrogance to the Revolution and the establishment of the Islamic  Republic are indicative of the significance of this issue.
Since  the first day after the establishment of the Islamic Republic, the  organizations that have global power, money, weaponry, means of  propaganda and media outlets have taken various actions against the  Islamic system. This is indicative of the fact that the establishment of  the Islamic system was a crucial and intolerable event to oppressors  and global arrogance. And this is how it is because Islam is the  religion of justice and humanity. Islam is the religion of confronting  injustice, oppression and violation of rights. Naturally, the people  whose existence is based on oppression, violation of rights and  suppression of human beings are afraid of the presence of Islam, and  they oppose it. This is the reason behind the opposition to the Islamic  Republic. Of course they have their own pretexts. Every now and then  they invent a pretext. But this is the fact of the situation.
Islam  and the Islamic Republic provided humanity with a novel path. They  presented a novel movement to peoples of the world. They showed that a  nation can stand up against the most bullying governments of the world,  even a nation that does not have many weapons and material facilities.  They showed that it is possible for such a nation not to give in to  those bullying governments, follow its own path and raise the flag of  justice and humanity. This is something new in the modern world. You are  the ones who opened up this path. This is true of all the events of the  Revolution. 
The enemies of the country and the  Revolution are very sensitive to you dear people of Qom. They are  strongly opposed to Qom, the people of Qom, Qom Seminary, the youth of  Qom and the spirits of the people of Qom. Why? Because Qom slapped them  across the face. Qom slapped the arrogant powers, the anti-Islam camp  and the anti-Iranian camp across the face. The 19th of Dey was one  occasion on which they were slapped across the face. The people of Qom  felt responsible sooner than others. They evaluated the situation, felt  responsible and stepped into the arena. These things are very important.  The ability to evaluate the situation appropriately requires insight,  and feeling responsible requires the spirit of commitment and faith.  These are both important. When we see that the enemy has deployed its  forces, we have to feel responsible. This is what commitment and faith  require. Some people fail to feel responsible. Of course the dear people  of Iran enjoy this spirit. And this spirit was strengthened through the  Islamic movement. It became deep-rooted and revealed itself during the  Revolution. The people of Qom were pioneers on different occasions. They  felt responsible on the 19th of Dey and stepped into the arena. And it  was not easy because they had to take bullets and stand up against the  violent suppression by the police forces and security system of the evil  Pahlavi regime: they did not show any mercy. But the people of Qom  stepped into the arena.
This insight, this sense  of responsibility and this presence on the scene were a strong slap  across the face of the enemy. This was why the people of Tabriz, Yazd  and other cities suddenly responded. Thus, this great movement was  started. Our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) had prepared the ground for this  movement over many years. This movement is a slap across their face.  When the enemy is slapped across the face, it becomes spiteful and  responds. If we want to evaluate our capabilities, we need to watch the  enemy. When the enemy clearly threatens us, we should feel that we are  highly capable and that we can harm it.
During my  recent trip, the movement by Qom - its people, seminary, religious  scholars and youth - was a slap across the face of the enemy. They felt  the pain. They showed that they are vulnerable when faced with such show  of power, such insight and such public presence. This is a lesson for  the Iranian nation. 
We overcame the enemy  whenever we managed to develop an appropriate understanding and  evaluation through insight, felt responsible and entered the arena.  "When you have entered it, you shall surely be victorious." [The Holy  Quran, 5: 23] When you enter the arena with insight and faith, you will  definitely win. Why? Because the opposing camp does not have religious  faith and deep spiritual motives. Those who act as the agents of this  camp are just mercenaries who have been deceived. And the plotters and  masterminds do not have religious faith. When you enter the arena with  faith, you win. This is an experience for the Iranian nation. 
During  the past 32 years, the Iranian nation has managed to make great  achievements through this experience. It has improved in terms of  material standards. These scientific advances, technological advances  and constant efforts made across the country are signs of material  progress. The Iranian nation has also managed to achieve a high  spiritual position. We saw the divine signs. We saw the signs of divine  assistance. Previously, we used to read about divine assistance in  religious books only. Today we feel it in the real world, just as Imam  Khomeini (r.a.) did. Our magnanimous Imam told me that he had felt this  divine assistance.
The Iranian nation has felt  divine assistance and support in various arenas - when it was present in  the arena, when it was prepared to engage in selfless efforts. It has  felt divine assistance in one way or another during the imposed war, in  political activities, in times of fitna and on different other  occasions. For example, during the fitna of the year 1388, one could see  the hand of divine power. The people woke up, entered the arena and  foiled a great plot. 
There is a lot of room for  analysis, explanation and clarification of the aspects and dimensions of  the fitna that had been planned by the enemy. The enemy had carried out  careful calculations, but its calculations turned out to be wrong. It  did not know the Iranian nation. Behind the scene, the enemy had seen  everything. The people whom you call the heads of fitna had been pushed  onto the scene by the enemy. Of course they committed a sin. One must  not be manipulated by the enemy. One must understand the truth  immediately. When a person suffers from lack of vigilance, but then  realizes that he has made a mistake, he must change his path  immediately. Well, they failed to do so. The main elements were those  who had planned the fitna, those who had carried out the calculations.  They wrongly believed that the Islamic Republic would be wiped off. They  believed that not only the essence of religion but also religious  slogans would disappear. This was the plan. The plan was that if they  managed to change the foundations of the government the way they wanted,  they would proceed in a certain manner. And if they failed to change  the foundations of the government the way they wanted, they would create  uproar in the country. As I said once, the plan was to create a  caricature of the Revolution. They wanted to fake a revolution by  imitating the Revolution, just like an admirer of a hero who tries to  act like the hero. This was the plan. The Iranian nation gave them a  punch in the mouth and put an end to their activities. 
Today  the Revolution, the Islamic Republic and the Iranian nation are far  stronger than last year when those events took place, and the right path  of religion is far clearer now. The reason is that whenever Allah the  Exalted puts people through a test, He gives them a score. When a  person, a group of people or a nation passes a divine test, Allah the  Exalted gives them a good score. The score improves their position. This  is how divine tests work. Allah the Exalted gives us a bad score if we  fail a divine test, and that bad score entails decline and degeneration.  That is to say, the situation of those who get a bad score from God  becomes worse. The same is true of the successful passing of divine  tests - the position of the nations that pass the tests is improved. 
During  the time of Imam Ali (a.s.), the people failed a divine test. As a  result, the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) was martyred during  worship. The performance of the people was bad. Why would the situation  of a society become so bad that the embodiment of justice, spirituality  and monotheism is martyred by the most wretched person? This was  indicative of the fact that the people had failed a divine test.  Therefore, God made their situation worse. They regressed so much that  Imam Hussein (a.s.) was martyred in front of their eyes.
When  you pass a divine test, God improves your position. Today the path of  Islam, the path of faith in God and the path of the Revolution are far  stronger and far clearer than they used to be before last year's fitna.  Why? Because the people did well on the test. This improvement is the  result of receiving a good divine score. These are guidelines for us. We  should act like this in the case of all events. It is necessary to  look, evaluate and calculate appropriately. We should take care not to  make a mistake in our evaluations. We must not confuse primary issue  with secondary issues. We must not consider big and important events as  insignificant. Similarly, we must not consider small events as big. We  need to evaluate things in an appropriate manner. This is the first  step. Then we need to feel responsible. This is how a responsive nation  lives its happy life, the kind of life that God has promised for  believers. "Whoever does good whether male or female and he is a  believer, We will most certainly make him live a happy life." [The Holy  Quran, 16: 97] This means increasing success in divine tests and  increasing progress. Those who pass away while treading this path  achieve God's company and higher levels of happiness. And those who stay  alive make constant spiritual as well as material progress in the  world. 
The Iranian nation has started treading a  path. It has successfully passed many divine tests. The imposed war was a  great test. Our people emerged victorious out of this test. They did  not just achieve victory in the war, but they were also victorious in  terms of divine and spiritual standards, which was more important than  their victory in the war. This was because they showed that they were  selfless and prepared and that they had patience and insight on the path  of God. Allah the Exalted helped this nation improve up until today,  and it will continue improving in the future as well. The enemies that  confront the Iranian nation do not understand these truths.
Today  the Iranian nation is successful in its domestic policies. It is  successful in its foreign policies. It is successful in terms of its  influence in the region. It is successful in terms of its influence on  important global issues. These are a set of realities. The enemy wants  to challenge the Iranian nation in all these ways. It wants to create  obstacles on the path of the Iranian nation. Of course it will fail. The  enemy wants to create economic problems for our people. It wants to  create trouble for our government officials through such things as  sanctions. But they have been unsuccessful. They try to make other  countries, governments and peoples afraid of the Iranian nation. All the  propaganda by the Americans and Zionists about human rights, the  nuclear issue and the imaginary atomic bomb is broadcast with the  purpose of presenting a distorted image of the Iranian nation to the  countries of this region. But they have been unsuccessful, and this is  evidenced by America's defeat in Palestine, Afghanistan and Iraq. Who  defeated America? America was defeated by the appropriate policies  adopted by nations. They say that Iran is their enemy in different  regional issues. Their enemy is not Iran. The influence of the Islamic  Republic of Iran is spiritual. Yes, the power of the Islamic Republic  awakens nations. There is no doubt in this regard. As a result of this, a  government comes to power in Iraq in spite of all the efforts by the  Americans to stop it. But due to the vigilance of the people of Iraq,  this government comes to power. This is how the Islamic Republic  demonstrates its influence. This is true of other areas as well. 
We  will continue this path. We are familiar with the peaks now. We know  where we want to go. "And thus We have made you a medium (just) nation  that you may be the bearers of witness to the people." [The Holy Quran,  2: 143] This is the path that should help our nation achieve pure Islam  because it will benefit them both in this world and in the hereafter.  Happy life in the world and the next depends on perfect Islam. We are at  the beginning of our path. There are a lot of shortcomings that we are  suffering from. We are far from perfect Islam. This is our path. We are  familiar with the peaks. And Allah the Exalted has shown us the path.  The Iranian nation and its government officials are firmly determined to  move ahead on this path. 
Of course we need to be  vigilant. Everybody must be vigilant. We do not want to - and we should  not - put our heads on a soft pillow and lull ourselves into a false  sense of security. We must not keep telling ourselves that the enemy is  defeated, that the enemy is weak and that we are powerful until we fall  asleep. We have to be vigilant. Just as the Commander of the Faithful  said, "Remember, a warrior is always wary and vigilant and never  careless and negligent, and the enemy will not fall asleep whenever one  falls asleep." [Nahjul Balaghah, Letter 62] You have to stay vigilant  whenever there is a conflict. Conflicts are not in our hands. It is the  enemy that creates conflicts - political conflicts, security conflicts,  economic conflicts. Conflicts are not necessarily military. We need to  stay awake and vigilant whenever there is a conflict. Our youth should  stay vigilant. Our clergy should stay vigilant. Our universities should  stay vigilant. Our government officials should stay vigilant. Vigilance  of our government officials means that they should render as many  services to the people as they can. They should work as hard as  possible. They should make every effort to preserve this unity - which  is like a thorn in the enemy's side. 
May God  bestow success and approval on you. Dear God, by the blessedness of  Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household, make these dear people benefit from  the spring of Your grace and blessings. Dear God, make us steadfast on  this path. Dear God, associate the pure souls of our martyrs and the  immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) with Your saints in the  hereafter. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
