
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Address to Basiji Academics"/>
This is a very pleasant and meaningful gathering: the gathering of university professors and students with the meaningful title of "Basiji".
Basij means preparedness. If you consider young people, especially those like students and professors who are active in academic circles, you will notice that they nurture certain ideals and aspirations regarding the future of their country and nation. Those who are willing to endeavor to accomplish their ideals and realize their aspirations are called Basijis.
Now, when university professors and students are given the title of "Basiji", the combination of university and Basij will be instrumental in expediting our country's progress and development. 
This is because university is the place where blueprints for the future of our nation are prepared, and the commitment and determination of Basiji academics and students to accomplish lofty objectives will attach greater significance to university and its role in building the future of the nation.
One of the major tenets of our Islamic movement is monotheism. Although the general meaning of the word is that there is only one Creator of the universe, monotheism also indicates that one should not submit to the rule by dictatorial and oppressive regimes and the domination by the arrogant powers. 
Another basic principle of our Islamic movement is the belief in human dignity and respect for human rights and freedoms. Justice and equity are also among the main principles underlying our Islamic movement.
Based on such principles, Imam Khomeini launched the Islamic movement. The movement gradually gathered momentum and, thanks to all-out public support, culminated in the victory of the Islamic Revolution and the establishment of an Islamic system in our country. 
Following the victory of our revolution, our Islamic system posed a challenge to the then dominant systems of the world, namely the Western capitalist system and the Eastern communist system. The reason was that our system was independent of both, was founded on firm beliefs and ideology and pursued noble ideals and objectives. Because it refused to compromise its beliefs and principles and approach those systems, it drew hostility from both of them.
Ever since the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the enemies have been hatching plots against the Iranian people, and they are still continuing to do so. However, such plots have been foiled due to the firm religious beliefs and strong will and resolve of our great nation.
Our enemies have by now realized that they cannot overpower the nations that are determined to defend their independence, freedom, honor and dignity, especially the faithful Iranian nation and its zealous youth who are ready to sacrifice their lives and achieve martyrdom in defending their homeland.
This is why the arrogant powers and their media are presently doing their utmost to dishearten the Iranian people and undermine their spirit and morale by spreading negative propaganda and false information against the Islamic Republic. For instance, they are trying to disseminate the false idea that there is confusion in this country, that there is no proper decision-making or concrete plan for progress and development.
Among the measures that can help to foil the enemies' plots are the promotion of scientific work and research at centers of higher education, the promotion of construction in different parts of the country and giving an impetus to industrial and agricultural activities. Above all, efforts should be made to promote moral and spiritual values in society, especially among the youth.
My dear young people! You should note that Basij itself is one of the main targets of our enemies. The reason is that the enemies are well aware of the capabilities and potential of Basijis. They know that Basijis are pious and intellectual young people who are committed to the progress and development of the country and the safeguard of the Islamic revolution and system, and who are even ready to sacrifice their lives in order to achieve their noble objectives. 
The arrogant powers usually carry out their policies and further their interests by bullying and intimidating other nations. However, this is effective with regard to those who are afraid of death, not with regard to our nation and our brave Basijis who are ready to achieve martyrdom in order to protect their country and their Islamic system.
This spirit of seeking martyrdom runs counter to the present formulas applied by the arrogant powers, which are based on intimidation and coercion, and renders those formulas ineffective with regard to our nation. Thus, the arrogant and expansionist powers are furious with our Basijis.
My dear ones! Be aware of the great value of Basij. Be aware of the great value of university, and try to turn university into a center for scientific, political, intellectual and moral mobilization.
Finally, be vigilant and keep up the good work. Appreciate the great merit of the path you are following and rest assured that as long as our country has pious youth, committed and devout Basijis and a great nation that is loyal to the path and ideals of the Islamic Revolution, no enemy would be able to achieve his diabolical goals with regard to our country.
There are bright prospects for our country and our great nation, especially for our young people. I pray to Almighty Allah to assist you all in accomplishing your lofty objectives.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
