
<meta year="2012" title="Leader's Speech to Hajj Officials"/>
I solemnly and humbly pray to Allah the Exalted to accept the pilgrimage of hajj pilgrims. I hope their pilgrimage satisfies God and brings about divine blessings for Islamic communities. I deem it necessary to express my sincere gratitude to officials in charge of hajj affairs and the organizations that cooperate with them. I pray to Allah the Exalted to reward these hardworking officials for every effort they make.
The points which were raised both by Mr. Qazi-Asgar and by the honorable head of the Hajj and Pilgrimage Organization were good points. The measures that they have adopted and the measures that they are planning to adopt are good and necessary. Efforts should be made to carefully carry out what these officials have in mind so that we can bring hajj closer to what Allah the Exalted has demanded, both in terms of form and in terms of content and essence. Efforts should be made to carry out this great and essential obligation - which is different from other Islamic obligations in the sense that it is related to the fate of the Islamic Ummah and the world - in a way that Allah the Exalted has asked us.
The conditions are different this year and hajj enjoys a special position in these conditions. This year the greatness of the Seal of Prophets (s.w.a.) became clear to both friends and enemies, and this is one characteristic of this year's hajj pilgrimage. There are two sides to what the sinful hands of the enemies did in America and insulted the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.). On the one hand, what they did is indicative of the depth of the grudge that the enemies and the arrogant powers bear against the Prophet of Mercy, the Prophet of Honor, the Prophet of Dignity, the embodiment of the most noble and valuable human virtues throughout history and in the entire creation. It shows the depth of their hostility towards the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). On the other hand, their politicians adopt positions which are indistinguishable from hostile positions. This is one side of the issue, which proved very beneficial to the world of Islam. Even the most skeptical people and communities realized who the main sides of the confrontation are. They realized that the confrontation is between the camp of truth and the camp of falsehood. It became clear that the confrontation is centered around the essence of Islam, around the existence of the Seal of Prophets (s.w.a.). This event was caused by the enemies, but it was the world of Islam that benefitted from it. This was because the world of Islam identified the enemy and the reason behind his enmity. The world of Islam realized the difference between truth and falsehood. These are the main issues today. The rest of what the arrogant powers of the world say against Muslim nations are secondary issues: they are just lies and pretexts. It became clear what the essence of the issue is. This is one side of the issue.
The other side of the issue is the great movement which was carried out by Muslims. Notice what is happening today in the world of Islam. Notice how Muslim peoples are reacting. The majority of them have not even watched the film: they only know that it insults the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), yet notice how the world of Islam is reacting. Islamic countries and peoples step into the arena without being incited to take action. With all their heart and soul, they express their heartfelt love and respect for the Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.). This is very valuable. What happened was amazing. In western countries where great idols and arrogant and taghuti governments are constantly hatching plots against Islam and the Islamic Ummah, in Europe, in America and in different non-Islamic countries, Muslims and sometimes non-Muslims have stepped into the arena. And this is another side of the issue. What happened was very important and it showed the capacity of the world of Islam for action.
I have said before that all Muslims agree with each other as far as the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) is concerned. All Islamic denominations say the same things as far as the Seal of Prophets (s.w.a.) is concerned. All of them share the same beliefs in this regard. As far as the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) is concerned, differences between Shia and Sunni or between moderate and radical Muslims are meaningless. All Muslims share the same beliefs about the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). They are completely united in this regard. Today this truth is being revealed in the world of Islam and it is necessary to appreciate it.
This is where renouncing polytheists during hajj becomes meaningful. During hajj pilgrimage, Muslims from across the world of Islam come together in one place. As Imam Hussein (a.s.) says in Dua Arafa, different cultures, races, languages and dialects come together during hajj. It is necessary to strengthen this unity, which appears in material form in great hajj congregations. All pilgrims should feel that they are faced with the same danger, with the same enemy. And all of them should renounce this enemy from the bottom of their hearts. This is where the meaning of renouncing polytheists becomes clear.
We human beings cannot describe the position and status of the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.). Our language and understanding are flawed. We can only express our love for him. We can only express our sincerity and humility. There is nothing else we can do. The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) is the one about whom Allah the Exalted says: "Surely, Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet." [The Holy Quran, 33: 56] Allah the Exalted sends blessings on him. God's angels send blessings on him. Who are we to be worthy of understanding his status? But we love him and we pay serious attention to his sayings. We should safeguard this principle: we should pay serious attention to the sayings of our Prophet (s.w.a.), to his sayings about monotheism, Islam and the Holy Quran. Hajj should be the manifestation of this principle.
One of the great plots of the enemy is to foment discord among Muslims. Of course, in the case of the recent event, this plot was foiled to a large extent, but everybody should be cautious and vigilant. The enemy makes efforts to pitch us against each other because of certain differences relating to ideology and rituals in spite of the fact that we share the same set of beliefs as far as the main principles and issues are concerned. Yes, Islamic denominations have certain differences in various areas, but we Muslims should tell the enemy that we are united against the enemies of Islam, against those who insult the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.). The enemies of religion, the arrogant powers and leaders of the anti-Islam camp should know that the Islamic Ummah is united against them. They should stop thinking about fomenting discord. They should despair of fomenting discord among us. Muslim clergy, Muslim people, Muslim managers, followers of different Islamic denominations and Shia and Sunni Muslims should be cautious in this regard. We should be vigilant. We should not let the enemy save himself from the rage of the Islamic Ummah by fomenting discord among us and turning our rage against each other. This is a big mistake. This is one of the points related to hajj, particularly this year's hajj.
Another point that I have repeatedly discussed before is that hajj is undoubtedly a political and social obligation. It is the manifestation of unity, the manifestation of Muslim unity. It is an opportunity to renounce polytheists. But at the same time, hajj is also full of spiritual feelings. This is a point which should not be forgotten. From the first ritual to the last, divine remembrance is prevalent during hajj. We should keep this point in mind. Divine remembrance purifies us. It purifies our hearts. It makes us spiritually alert. It undermines love for the material world, money, social position, carnal desires and other human passions. This is what we need today and we will need it forever. In order to follow the right path, in order to continue on the path of truth, one needs to constantly remember God. And hajj provides one of the best opportunities to engage in divine remembrance. Hajj is unique from certain aspects. I ask hajj pilgrims to pay careful attention to what they are doing during all the rituals. Pay attention to Who you are speaking to. You should be aware of Who you are speaking to and Whose cause you are supporting when you carry out different rituals. We should not let ourselves become isolated from this divine remembrance, this humility, this solemn praying, not even for one single moment. This is one of the important things that we should do. The honorable clergy who accompany hajj pilgrims and particularly the officials in charge of hajj caravans should pay attention to this point.
The last point is that it is necessary to revive the bond between Muslim brothers who live in different parts of the world of Islam. This bond is not like the kind of bond that exists between governments. Relationships between governments are formal and verbal, and they are formed for different purposes. But the bond between members of the Islamic Ummah is spiritual in nature. This kind of bond is the product of relationships between people from different countries. When meeting Muslim brothers from other countries, those who can speak their language should speak to them, express their affection for them and stress the common areas. And those who cannot speak the language of their Muslim brothers should show kindness and tolerate certain difficulties for the sake of their Muslim brothers. Somebody might push you, but you should respond with a smile. Try to shape this bond through your actions. The purpose is not just to safeguard the prestige of the people of Iran. Of course, this is very important and it is very good if a people manage to show their honor and value and their commitment to human and Islamic principles and values. The other purpose, which is more important, is to form a spiritual bond with Muslims from other countries. Whoever you see during hajj is a Muslim, no matter what his race is, no matter what language he speaks, no matter which denomination he follows. He is on this pilgrimage because of his love for Ka'bah and the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), just like yourself. He is following the same path. He is speaking to Allah the Exalted, just like yourself. Try to stress these common areas as much as you can so that others understand that these areas exist. When Muslims throughout the world feel that they have brothers in other countries and among other peoples, they become confident and spiritually strong. And in this way, they save themselves from the weakness that the wicked hands of the arrogant powers have imposed on Muslims. It is necessary to strengthen this bond.
I pray to Allah the Exalted to bestow His blessings on Iranian pilgrims and on all pilgrims from across the world of Islam. By Allah's favor, all of you will benefit from the prayers of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake). By Allah's favor and by relying on the help of the holy souls of God's saints, the immaculate souls of our martyrs and the pure soul of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.), all of us will be able to move forward on the path that satisfies Allah the Exalted.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
