
<meta year="2012" title="Leader's Speech at Imam Hussein (a.s.) University"/>
I would like to congratulate you on the arrival of the month of Rajab, the birthday anniversary of Imam Baqir (a.s.) and the anniversary of the magnificent liberation of Khoramshahr on the third of Khordad. Also, I would like to congratulate you dear youth on attaining your ranks and receiving your epaulets in the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps.
Allah the Exalted has bestowed on us the great blessing of rendering services to the Islamic Republic and it is our responsibility to thank God for this blessing. Thankfully, today's field - which was full of innovations and which imbued all performances and programs with beautiful and symbolic signs - was an example of the message of the Islamic Revolution to us, to you and to future generations. 
In the Holy Quran, Allah the Exalted says, "Surely those who swear allegiance to you do but swear allegiance to Allah" [The Holy Quran, 48: 10]. Those who pledged allegiance to the Holy Prophet in the way of Islam actually pledged allegiance to God: "The hand of Allah is above their hands". The hand which joined the hands of Muslims for allegiance - which was the hand of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) - was, in fact, the hand of God. Allegiance to Islam, to religion and to the divine mission is such an allegiance. This is in fact, allegiance to God. 
In another part of this ayah, God says, "Therefore whoever breaks (his allegiance), he breaks it only to the injury of his own soul". Whoever breaks this allegiance has acted to his own disadvantage. "And whoever fulfills what he has covenanted with Allah, He will grant him a mighty reward". Those who are faithful to this allegiance and who stay committed to it will receive their great reward from Allah the Exalted. This reward is not only a spiritual reward although the reward that one receives in the hereafter is so great and meaningful that our materialistic minds cannot understand it. We receive a reward in this world as well. The reward of those people who move forward on the path of God and who stay committed to the divine allegiance is dignity, glory, liberation and greatness. 
Do you know from what depths the people of Iran reached the heights of glory? The people of Iran were in the depths of humiliation as a result of the domination of oppressive rulers over the course of many centuries. However, the people of Iran are respected and powerful today, they play a leading and pioneering role and they are hopeful and confident about the future. Today, the future is smiling at the people of Iran. Inside the country, youth, the elderly and people from different social backgrounds feel that they have an identity. They know what they are after and their efforts are meaningful. All of these are valuable. 
People become hollow, they lose their identity and they become bewildered and confused when they are separated from religion, spirituality and God. As a result of drifting away from divine obligations, people become humiliated, as the Islamic Ummah was humiliated for many centuries. It was the resistance and faithfulness of the people of Iran which showed them this well-trodden, smooth and promising path. Of course, "smooth path" does not mean an easy and effortless path. There are many hardships, but greatness, magnificence and manhood emerge during great hardships.
Dear youth, you should appreciate the value of the youth, the physical and mental capabilities and the pure and enlightened hearts that Allah the Exalted has bestowed on you. You should show diligence. This country belongs to you. The future belongs to you. It is you who should lead - at great speed, with all your strength and on a daily basis - the Islamic Ummah and the caravan of Muslims towards transcendence. Past generations started this path and they made great efforts and sacrifices on it.
We thank God that our armed forces - including our Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, our Islamic Republic of Iran Army and all military organizations in our country - showed perseverance on this path and that they left permanent legacies for future generations.
The path belongs to you. It is you who can take this path. You should work as hard as you can on this path. The people of Iran are moving towards dignity and transcendence on a daily basis. Our progress, our improvement and the administration of justice among our people - in this decade, we are committed to achieving these goals - will help the world of Islam and eventually the entire world, to make progress and administer justice. 
The camp of oppression, arrogance, bullying and cruelty is becoming weak in the world. Their outward fuss and uproar is not a sign of real power. Wherever the light of spirituality and faith shines, darkness and gloom will naturally weaken and gradually fade. This is happening in the world. The important parts of this task have been entrusted to our dear youth and one of the most sensitive parts of this task has been entrusted to you dear youth in our armed forces.
I ask Allah the Exalted to bestow success on you. I ask Him to bestow success on us as well so that we can appreciate the value of you youth and see the glorious future of the people of Iran and the Islamic Ummah in your enlightened faces. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

