
<meta year="2012" title="Leader's Speech to People of East Azerbaijan "/>
I would like to welcome  all the dear brothers and sisters who have come from Tabriz and other cities of  East Azerbaijan in this cold weather in order to imbue the atmosphere of this  Hussayniyyah with spirituality and love. I express my gratitude to you. The 29th  of Bahman reminds me of pleasant memories of the annual meetings that I have  arranged with honorable youth and brave and proud men from East Azerbaijan.  This meeting is very pleasant and enjoyable to me. I pray to Allah the Exalted  to bestow increasing blessings, guidance and assistance on you dear people. By  Allah's favor, all of you will see with your own eyes the brighter, more  enjoyable and more pleasant future that our dear homeland will achieve.
The unforgettable and  permanent lessons that the Revolution and the Islamic Republic hold for us are  the factors that guide our nation, our government officials and you dear people   particularly our youth  towards the peaks. This is based on what we see and  experience, not just what we know from the reports. One example that I would like  to discuss is the massive rallies that the Iranian people arranged this year on  the 22nd of Bahman. Everybody said that compared to previous years,  this year the demonstrators were greater in number, more enthusiastic and  happier. This is not the news reported by one or two individuals. This was the  case with Tehran, Tabriz, Isfahan, Mashhad and other big cities of the country,  as far as I know. The question is: why? What was it about this year that made  the people rush to this great arena more enthusiastically than previous years?  The answer to this question is instructive for us. The answer is that this year  the people of Iran felt that their country, their government and their religion  need this presence. One camp is the camp of the wicked and spiteful enemies who  have full control over all the international media outlets. Many of the  politicians of the western world are puppets of this evil camp  namely, capitalists,  blood-thirsty capitalists and Zionists, the global network of Zionism, and  owners of big cartels, trusts and companies. Most of the highly advanced media  outlets of the modern world, such as TV channels and websites, belong to this  evil camp. From several months ago, these people focused their propaganda efforts  on promoting the idea that the faith of the Iranian people in the government,  Islam and the announced goals has been undermined.
They constantly repeated  this in their propaganda in order to encourage our honorable people to believe  this big lie. What was the goal? The goal was to undermine the determination of  the courageous and pious people of Iran  who have emerged victorious out of  difficult and great tests. When the people of a country lose their  determination, that country becomes defenseless. When the people are not present  in the arena, their government officials are left alone. No political system in  the world can work and move forward without the support of the people. This was  their goal and they focused their attention on the 22nd of Bahman.  They utilized different kinds of propaganda techniques in order to encourage  the people to leave this arena. The people discovered their plot. This insight  and this awareness of the requirements of time are amazing: they make one feel  small in the face of the greatness of the Iranian people. [People shout in  Azeri, "Azerbaijan is awake and it supports the Revolution."] This exceptional  insight of the people and this awareness of the requirements of time are  amazing. These are the factors that safeguard the nation and the country. The  Iranian people realized that the enemy was pursuing this goal and they kicked  the enemy in the mouth with their actions. They foiled the plots of the enemy  with their presence. Teenagers, youth, old people, men and women stepped into  the arena throughout the country. According to the accurate report that I  received, these rallies were held in at least 850 cities: it was not possible  for our national TV to show them. This is the Iranian nation. This shows the  insight of our people and their awareness of the requirements of time. Such a  nation will not be defeated. The message was delivered to those who should have  received it. The people who were cherishing illusions about the Iranian nation  in their worm-infested brains realized what is going on in Iran.
Of course, in their  propaganda they tried to prevent this truth from being reflected, but the truth  was revealed to those who should have found out: the intelligence services of  our enemies and the main policy-makers of the countries that are opposed to the  Islamic Republic. They realized that the brave people of Iran will be present on  the scene like that. They realized that the people of Iran will remain in the  arena like that. Of course, they tried to keep this truth from global public  opinion and this is a source of disgrace for them. They are the same people who  claim to support free flow of information. They claim that they do not prevent  the news from spreading. They claim that they do not censor the news. If they  do not censor the news, they should not have said that only thousands of people  took to the streets in Tehran. Was it only "thousands of people"? Millions of  people participated in the demonstrations on the 22nd of Bahman  throughout the country. Were there only thousands of demonstrators in Tehran?  They said hundreds of thousands of people took part in the nation-wide  demonstrations. Were there only hundreds of thousands of people in those  demonstrations? Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in every  big city of the country. Tens of millions of people stepped into the arena.  This is what they do in their propaganda. We have witnessed many cases of  lying, deception, plotting and humiliating dishonesty from the enemy. This has  been the case since the beginning of the Revolution up until today and the  situation will remain the same, but the enemy will not achieve his goal.
The sincere message of  the people of a nation, which comes from the bottom of their hearts, will prove  effective. I have repeatedly said that presence of the people, their  revolutionary spirit and their spirit of moving forward with firm determination  will spread everywhere, just like the pleasant weather of spring. It will  gradually benefit everybody. The examples can be witnessed in North Africa, in  all Arab countries, in the entire world of Islam, in the heart of every  intellectual and intelligent Muslim, among Muslim minorities in non-Muslim  countries, and in Islamic countries in which all Muslims have gradually acquired  a sense of identity over the course of many years. Islam has reached a  sensitive point in its movement. Future generations will witness very important  and great events. The world will be totally transformed. The materialistic and  hegemonic policies of the arrogant powers, which have shackled the people of  nations, will gradually decline and disappear. This is the future of the world.  And Iran is the origin of this transformation. Our nation is standing firm. The  important point is resistance and steadfastness. Dear youth, proud men and  women of Tabriz and East Azerbaijan, this resistance is the essential point. Why  do we commemorate the 29th of Bahman every year? The reason is not a  tendency to remain in the past. Many of the youth who have attended this  meeting and many of the youth of Tabriz and East Azerbaijan did not see that  day. Many of them had not been born into this world at that time, yet they  commemorate the occasion. This is not a tendency to remain in the past: it only  shows the right path into the future.
Regarding the city of Tabriz  and the Azerbaijan region, I have repeatedly said that the people of the  Azerbaijan region  particularly the people of Tabriz and many other cities of  Azerbaijan  have been at the forefront of the most essential events and  developments in the country since a hundred years ago. They have played a role  in essential developments, ranging from the tobacco issue when the late Hajj  Mirza Javad Mojtahed Tabrizi stepped into the arena, to the Constitutional  movement  both the original Constitutional movement and the movement that took  place after the Lesser Tyranny. The Azerbaijan region and the city of Tabriz  were the origin of those activities. Famous heroes of Tabriz, such as Sattar  Khan and Baqer Khan, used to carry the letters and fatwas of great religious scholars  of the time in their pockets. They used to refer to those letters and fatwas to  back up their arguments. People like the heroes and combatants of the  Azerbaijan region used to stress that they were followers of religious scholars  and the fatwas of their marja taqlids. We can infer these things from the  irrefutable evidence that remains from those times. It was not an aimless and  pointless movement. It was a religious movement that originated from religious  commitment. All those who were involved in the movement throughout the country  were pious, but in certain areas of the country the characteristics of the  local people  their pride, their courage and their magnanimity  made this  religious movement outstanding, particularly in the city of Tabriz and the  Azerbaijan region.
The same was true of the  Islamic movement that started on the 15th of Khordad, 1342. Certain  religious scholars of the Azerbaijan region were imprisoned or exiled. They  were sent to prisons in Tehran. The 29th of Bahman was a significant  event at the beginning of the revolutionary movement: it is a landmark on the  great path of the Iranian nation. I have repeatedly said that if it had not  been for the 29th of Bahman, the event that happened in Qom on the  19th of Dey might not have had that effect. It was the movement of  the people of Tabriz on the 29th of Bahman that revived the memory  of the innocent people who had been martyred in Qom on the 19th of  Dey. It conveyed the message of the martyrs of Qom to all parts of the country  and the entire world. This shows the importance of the movement by the people  of Tabriz. Later on, they played a significant role in the issues related to  the Revolution and the war.
The first Friday prayer  leader who was martyred while praying was from the city of Tabriz. Out of the  five people who were martyred while praying, two were from Tabriz. The Ashura  Army and its Azeri and Tabrizi soldiers and commanders were among the most  prominent people and armies during the war. An army is a group of youth: not all  the people are represented in the army. But if the army is not supported by all  the people, a brave army like that cannot be formed. The more bodies came in  for funeral ceremonies, the more enthusiastic the people would become and the  more Iranian mothers would encourage their young children to go to the  battlefield. All of these things are significant: they are the secret behind  the success of the Iranian nation.
Dear people, we Iranian  people had been humiliated during the era of monarchies. They used to humiliate  us. They used to take away whatever rightfully belonged to us. They used to  steal our oil. They used to suppress the talents of our youth. We fell behind  in science. We fell behind in technology. We fell behind in international  politics. We failed to influence other nations of the world the way we should  have. They shackled the people of Iran. But the Iranian nation moved forward  and determined its path. Today the Iranian nation supports combating global  oppression and global arrogance. Of course, this has its own blessings for the  Iranian nation. When a nation stands firm and does not feel afraid of the  fearsome and powerful facade of the enemy's network, it makes progress in  science, it makes progress in economic areas, it makes progress in social  matters, its youth become aware, it influences other nations, and its thoughts,  religion and slogans engulf the entire world. The slogans that have spread to almost  all parts of the world of Islam used to be shouted by the oppressed Iranian  people alone. It is possible for a nation to play a significant role and  strengthen itself. We will remain steadfast. By Allah's favor, we will make  progress in science. We will make progress in economic matters. We will make  progress in constructing the country. Our people and youth will improve the  country and turn it into a role model for the world of Islam by relying on  their determination and steadfastness. It is necessary for us to follow the  right path: the path of God, the path of Islam, the path of piety, the path of  sharia. We need to stay vigilant. We need to stay awake. We need to fulfill our  responsibilities.
The parliamentary  elections are around two weeks away. The usual puppets in the global media have  started their efforts to discourage the people from taking part in the  elections. I have repeatedly said that the presence of the people in the  elections can help the country move forward. It can protect the country against  the enemy. It can make the enemy doubtful about its machinations. It can force  the enemy to back down. Vibrant elections will punch the enemy in the mouth.
God is with you. God is  with you. "Whoever is with God, God is with him." When the people of a nation  move forward on the path of God and promote the cause of God, divine laws assist  them. The hearts of people are controlled by God. This firm determination is  God's work. God willing, Allah the Exalted will help our people in this  election as well. By Allah's favor, the 9th parliamentary elections  will be accompanied by insight and enthusiastic and massive presence of the  people, and a good Majlis will be formed for the people. By Allah's favor, good  MPs will be voted into the Majlis and into the arena of work and rendering  services. [People shout in Azeri, "Self-sacrificing Azerbaijan will not be  separated from Khamenei."] Thank you very much.
I pray to Allah the  Exalted to bestow His blessings and approval on you. May God protect you and  keep you dynamic.
Greetings be upon you and  Allah's mercy and blessings
