
<meta year="2012" title="Leader's Speech to Government Officials and Ambassadors of Islamic Countries"/>
I would like to  congratulate all the dear audience and the honorable brothers and sisters   particularly the esteemed foreign guests who have attended this meeting  on  the auspicious birthday anniversaries of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and Imam  Sadiq (a.s.). I would also like to extend my congratulations to the entire  Islamic Ummah and the entire humanity, particularly the honorable people of Iran  who have been present on the scene. 
Thankfully, two great occasions  have coincided this year: namely, these auspicious birthday anniversaries  which  are a source of blessing and the key cause of the great and historic movement  in the world of Islam  and the victory of the Islamic Revolution which was one  of the outcomes of this great Islamic movement. The Iranian people will  celebrate two Eids today. They will celebrate the birthday anniversaries of the  Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and Imam Sadiq as well as the anniversary of the Islamic  Revolution. In fact the birth of the Islamic Revolution was a new Islamic  occasion. At a time when the materialistic world and the materialistic hegemons  thought they had managed to eliminate spirituality and religion  particularly,  Islam  from the daily life of human beings, this great and historic voice was  raised in this country, which both frightened the enemies of Islam, humanity  and national independence and instilled hope into the hearts of the vigilant,  aware and insightful friends. The day the Islamic Revolution broke out in Iran,  nobody in the world would have thought the flag of Islam could be raised like  this in such a region and in such a country which were under full control of  the hegemons. Nobody in the world would have thought this Islamic movement  would continue, develop and stand up against the enemies. Nobody in the world  would have thought these things would happen.
The enemies of the  Islamic Republic had promised themselves that they would bring the Islamic  Republic to its knees in a couple of months or in a year, at most. And they tried  their best to achieve this goal. Each and every day of the history of our  Revolution holds a lesson for us. Each and every day of these years of hard  work can be a lesson for other nations. In spite of all those plots and all  those pressures exerted in different forms, the Iranian nation resisted under  the leadership of that great man. Allah the Exalted had definitely entrusted in  him a ray of the immaculate light of prophethood. Our magnanimous Imam, that  great man, pursued the same path and the same movement. And the people of Iran  proved their loyalty and sincerity: they remained on the scene, tolerated the  pressures and overcame the enemy's plots with their willpower. As a result,  this immaculate tree was preserved. It put down roots and grew. And by Allah's  favor, it will grow more powerful on a daily basis. These are all blessings of  Islam and the birth of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). 
In order to find the path  of guidance, we Muslims only need to become familiar with the personality of  the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). Of course, we believe that the entire humanity  should benefit from the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and they do, but we members of  the Islamic Ummah should be the first to do so. Allah the Exalted prepared him  for the greatest mission in the history of mankind. Imam Sadiq (a.s.) said,  "The Almighty God educated His Messenger well and when he had educated him to  perfection, he said: surely you have a great character. Then He entrusted him  with the affairs of Islam and the Ummah so that he could educate His servants  and manage their affairs." Allah the exalted educated him and helped him  improve. He provided him with all the means that he required for this great and  historic achievement and then He put this heavy responsibility and this heavy  and historic mission on his shoulders. Therefore, maybe we can say that today   which is the 17th of Rabi al-Awwal and the birthday anniversary of  the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.)  is the greatest Eid in the history of mankind, a  day on which Allah the Exalted bestowed this great gift on humanity and on the  history of mankind. And the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) rose up relying on the tools  he had been equipped with.
Today if we Muslims focus  on the personality of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and if we are determined to  learn lessons, this would be enough for our worldly and spiritual life. In  order to restore our dignity, it is enough to consider his character and learn  lessons from him. The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) was the embodiment of knowledge. He  was the embodiment of trustworthiness. He was the embodiment of ethics. He was  the embodiment of justice. What else does mankind need? These are what mankind  needs. These are the needs that have not changed since the beginning. So many  changes have taken place in the life of human beings since the creation of  mankind, which have transformed the conditions of human life, but the main  needs of humanity have remained unchanged. Since the beginning up until today,  mankind has been after security and peace. Human beings have been after  justice. They have been after good behavior. They have been after forming a  firm bond with the Source of Creation. These are the main needs of mankind,  which originate from human nature. The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) was the embodiment  of all these needs. Today the Islamic Ummah needs all these characteristics.  Today the Islamic Ummah needs scientific progress. It needs to firmly believe  in God. We need healthy relationships and good behavior among ourselves. We  should treat each other in a brotherly way. We should treat each other with  mercy and patience. We need to be lenient towards each other. The Holy Prophet  of Islam (s.w.a.) is the embodiment of all these characteristics: knowledge, patience,  leniency, mercy, compassion towards weak people and fair behavior towards  everybody in society. We should learn lessons from the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.).  We need these things. Today we need to firmly believe in Allah the Exalted and  His promises. Allah the Exalted has promised that if we struggle in His way and  make efforts, He will help us achieve our goals. And you will achieve your  goals as a result of resistance. We should not feel weak and helpless in the  face of worldly passions. We should not feel weak in the face of material  possessions, social status and different kinds of temptations. We should  resist. These are the things that will help humanity achieve perfection. These  are the things that will bring about dignity for nations and genuine happiness  for society. We need these things. Our Prophet was the embodiment of all these  things.

  
After the Holy Prophet  (s.w.a.), Muslims did not work as hard as they should have and they harmed the  society he had built. We Muslims kept ourselves backward and now we must follow  the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and make up for the backwardness we imposed on  ourselves. Today the Islamic Ummah needs unity. The Islamic Ummah needs  compassion. The uprisings that have taken place in the world of Islam and in  the Arab world, the awakening of the people, the presence of the people on the  scene, the repeated retreats by America and the arrogant powers, the increasing  weakness of the Zionist regime  these are opportunities for Muslims and the  Islamic Ummah. We should wake up. We should learn lessons. There is no doubt  that this movement will continue thanks to the efforts of the Islamic Ummah, luminaries,  intellectuals and scientific, political and religious figures. And by Allah's  favor, the world of Islam will restore its glory. I pray to Allah the Exalted to hasten  that day and help all of us play a role in this regard.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's  mercy and blessings
