
<meta year="2012" title="Leader's Speech to Air Force Commanders"/>
I would like to welcome  you dear brothers and youth and I extend my congratulations on these blessed  days which evoke a lot of memories: the sacred birthday anniversaries of the  Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and Imam Sadiq (a.s.), the 22nd of Bahman and  the 19th of Bahman, which is considered an unforgettable memory and  a brilliant day of the Revolution. 
I insist that the 19th  of Bahman should be commemorated every year and over the past years I have  arranged meetings with the honorable members of the Air Force to commemorate  the occasion. The purpose of commemorating the 19th of Bahman is not  just to keep alive a memory although it is valuable to keep lovely and glorious  memories alive. However, there are two things that are important to me. One is  learning lessons from the past. For example, when we remember the memory of the  19th of Bahman, we learn a lesson from this event. That lesson is  action, innovation, resistance, timely work and its effect on the movement of  our society and country. Although the structure of the Army was not taghuti  before the Revolution, the leaders were taghuti. The Army was from among the  people. This is clear. It was clear to us from the beginning and it became  clear to the people over the years. But showing the manifestations of this  populist nature and playing a role in popular movements is a different matter. This  would be impossible unless an outstanding and notable movement takes place in  the Army and this was what happened on the 19th of Bahman.
Today when you take a  look at the event that took place on the 19th of Bahman, the  importance of the event might not be very clear to you. I myself witnessed this  event with my own eyes: I attended the meeting with the brothers from the Air  Force in Alawi School and witnessed their brave move. Those of us who were  witness to the event have a different feeling. The event that took place on the  19th of Bahman was a great breakthrough. Air Force officers and  pilots openly and explicitly expressed their support for the Revolution. They  looked the taghuti regime in the eye and said "no" to it. This was a great  event. This move proved effective, an appropriate and timely move that could  not have been accomplished by dormant and hidden sentiments. Action and  innovation would have such an effect in all arenas. During the war, there was a  particular arena and today there is a different arena. At every historical  juncture and in every arena, timely presence, time work and timely action can  have such a great effect. This is the first point.
The second point is that  we should learn lessons from this event for the future. We must not limit  ourselves to the past. Being satisfied with achievements of the past is one of  the problems that might afflict human communities, nations and groups of people:  musing over achievements of the past and feeling proud while failing to take  actions at the level of those achievements. Of course, today our Air Force and  Army are not comparable to those days. There is a world of difference. Great achievements  have been made. Permanent accomplishments have been achieved. There is no doubt  in this regard, but it is necessary for you to look at the future. The future  that awaits us is important and crucial. If a country is determined to restore  its dignity, identity, interests and security, it needs innovation and hard  work. It is not possible to achieve lofty goals by sitting aside, sleeping and  ignoring what is going on around oneself. The fact that Islamic communities and  countries suffered from backwardness for two, three hundred years was due to  this lack of vigilance and today all of us are paying the price for this  backwardness. In our region and in other Islamic regions, governments used to  boast about their past achievements, but their actions were not appropriate for  their existing situation and their future. Others acquired knowledge,  accumulated experience, achieved technological advances and started a movement  to conquer the world. This was while we fell into their trap and lost  everything we had. What I mean by "we" is not just Iran: Iran, the regional  countries, North African countries, the countries that are located to the east  of our country, and the entire Islamic region were suffering from lack of  vigilance. This lack of vigilance leads to problems such as being satisfied  with superficial achievements and failing to think of moving forward and  building one's future.
Of course, when the  people of nations awaken, their awakening automatically leads to certain  activities. It is just a matter of time. These activities can either be fast,  efficient and above the global average, or they can be slow in a way that we  fail to catch up with the rest of the world. This is because the rest of the  world is not sitting idly by. We are making determined efforts and we are developing  our countries, but is the rest of the world not doing the same? Our rivals are  also making efforts and developing their countries. On the whole, our efforts  must enable us to move forward faster than the opposing camp. Then we can be  hopeful about the future.
Make intensified efforts as  far as organization, building military equipment, training and strengthening  moral education are concerned. This has been my advice to all our youth and  members of the Air Force and the Armed Forces. Everybody should make  intensified efforts: the government, the officials of the country and different  sectors, especially the Armed Forces that are one of the important organs of  the country. These efforts should be purposeful and significant.
Fortunately, today it has  become clear that the movement of the Islamic Republic is righteous. You see  that our slogans, which used to be shouted only by the Iranian nation until  recently, have engulfed the entire region today. The countries which used to be  humble followers and pawns of the arrogant powers have joined the Iranian  nation as progressive forces, thanks to the determination of their people. They  are pursuing the same goals. They are shouting the same slogans. This is the  result of your progress. This means that the Iranian nation has managed to find  friends and supporters over the past three decades. We are not claiming that we  gave rise to these movements. This is not a logical claim. But it is also  illogical to say that the awakening of the Iranian nation  and the uproar it  has caused over the past three decades  has had no effect on the awakening of  other nations. This claim is not logical either and this is obvious. Today all  interpretations and analyses say the same thing: that Iran was the mother of  Islamic Awakening and the Islamic movement. This is what is stressed today in  the analyses presented by foreign analysts and reflected by different media  outlets and news websites. This shows the righteousness of our movement.
The Islamic Republic and  the Revolution that gave rise to this movement are moving towards a real,  permanent and stable identity that can be defended against different kinds of  aggression: Islamic identity, reliance on Allah the Exalted, feeling proud of  being a Muslim, relying on the capacities that Allah the Exalted has bestowed  on us as individuals and nations, and calling the world to spiritual values.
The world did not benefit  from indulging in materialism. The world did not benefit from promoting sexual  freedoms. Humanity did not benefit from what materialistic movements created in  Europe  freedom from spirituality and divine restrictions. These movements  neither ensured justice, nor did they ensure public welfare. They neither  ensured security, nor did they safeguard the family institution. They did not  manage to appropriately educate future generations either. They proved harmful  in all these areas. Yes, a number of company owners, bankers and weapon  manufacturers made profits, but the materialistic civilization of the west did  not have any human achievements. They neither managed to bring about happiness  for themselves, nor did they manage to bring about happiness for the societies  that used to imitate them and live under their shadow. 
The message of the  Islamic Republic is the message of liberation from these inauspicious  movements. Attention to spirituality and divine ethics while addressing human  needs: this is the same thing that exists in Islam as well  moderation.  Neither the extremism and wrong strictness of catholic and orthodox churches,  nor the unscrupulous behaviors that were born of a reaction to this extremism  in western societies: neither of these is good. Both are wrong. The path of  Islam is the path of moderation, the path of justice. Justice has a broad  meaning: putting everything in its proper place. In all areas, justice must be  taken into consideration, the path of moderation: "And thus We have made you a  medium (just) nation that you may be the bearers of witness to the people."  [The Holy Quran, 2: 143]
Today the Iranian nation  is among the pioneers of this movement. We build societies and systems. We have  a popular movement. Thirty three years have passed since the Revolution. In no  other part of the world are commemoration celebrations so popular. It is only  our Revolution that is celebrated by the people every year. Every year on the  22nd of Bahman, the people take to the streets in different parts of  the country. They hold demonstrations and they shout slogans. This has not been  the case with any other revolution. There have been big revolutions. We have  seen some of them in our own times and we have read about some others in  history books. At the anniversaries of revolutions, a group of people parade  past a few individuals and salute them. This was how the anniversary of  revolutions used to be celebrated before the Islamic Revolution. They used to  arrange a celebration and invite some people to eat and drink at the  celebration. It is only the Islamic Revolution which is celebrated by the  people themselves. Every year on the 22nd of Bahman, the people step  into the arena in cold and freezing winter weather. And this year, you will see  that by Allah's favor and with His guidance, the people will step into the  arena once again. This movement is a popular movement and by Allah's favor, it  will continue. There is a popular movement in the country and the Armed Forces  shoulder a major part of the responsibility in this popular movement. 
I advise all our  honorable youth in the Armed Forces and the Air Force to engage in  self-education. I advise all of them to engage in spiritual education and to  improve the level of their training, organization, discipline, awareness,  brotherhood and kindness at different levels as much as they can. These are the  characteristics of an Islamic and religious army. In an Islamic army, there is  discipline, but at the same time there is a sense of brotherhood among members  of the army as well. There is discipline and positive competition between  different parts of the army  including technical, tactical and military parts   but there is also the spirit of brotherhood, cooperation and friendship. These  are the characteristics of an Islamic military organization. Most importantly,  there is preparedness and the spirit of self-sacrifice and this is something  that none of your enemies has. Our youth proved this in practice during the war  and whenever necessary, they have proven the same thing since the war up until  today. They are prepared to lay down their lives and step into the arena and  this is extremely valuable. Preserve this spirit of self-sacrifice, resistance  and struggle for the sake of God. Increase your purity and piety on a daily  basis and Allah the Exalted will help you in all areas.
I pray to Allah the  Exalted to bestow His blessings on the Air Force staff and personnel, their honorable  families and their wives and children. I pray to God to help the people in  charge of different parts of this important and critical organization to fulfill  their responsibilities in the best possible way.
Greetings be upon you and  Allah's mercy and blessings
