
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Speech to Officials on Occasion of Birthday Anniversary of Holy Prophet (s.w.a.)"/>
I would like to congratulate the entire Islamic Ummah, the honorable 
people of Iran and all you dear people who have attended this meeting - 
particularly the esteemed guests and ambassadors of Islamic countries 
who have come from different Islamic countries to attended this meeting -
 on the birthday anniversaries of Imam Sadiq (a.s.) and the savior of 
mankind and the divine gift to humanity, the Holy Prophet of Islam, 
Muhammad ibn Abdullah (s.w.a.).
The birth of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) is a source of divine mercy on
 mankind. In the Holy Quran, God's Messenger (s.w.a.) has been described
 as "a mercy to the Worlds". This mercy is not limited. It includes 
education of mankind, spiritual purification, guiding human beings onto 
the right path and bringing about progress in material and spiritual 
aspects of life. And it is not limited to the people of those times: it 
includes all history. "And others from among them who have not yet 
joined them" [The Holy Quran, Sura al-Jumu'ah, Ayah 3]. The path to that
 goal is observing the teachings and rules that Islam has specified for 
mankind.
The Islamic Ummah has had challenges and deviations over the course 
of many centuries. We Muslims have drifted away from Islam and become 
busy with things that Islam has advised us against. Over the course of 
many centuries, we became busy with civil wars. Taghuti powers kept us 
busy. The result was that after the first few centuries, the Islamic 
Ummah failed to reach the goal and destination that had been specified 
by the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and by dear Islam. Despite the fact that 
Allah the Exalted has bestowed many sources of material wealth on 
Islamic countries, which could have been used to achieve progress, 
Muslim countries fell to the level of the most backward countries in the
 world in terms of science, industry and many other standards of 
progress. This was not what Islam had determined for us: this was only 
the result of our lack of vigilance and the bad actions that we took. 
"Whatever misfortune befalls you, it is from yourself" [The Holy Quran, 
Sura an-Nisa, Ayah 79]. It was we ourselves who caused these conditions 
over time as a result of our lack of vigilance.
Today the conditions have changed in the world of Islam. Islamic 
Awakening is tangible throughout the world of Islam. One can witness a 
great movement in the entire world of Islam, a movement that is at 
different stages in different parts of the world of Islam. There is a 
tendency to return to the principles of Islam, which are the source of 
glory and progress. Intellectuals, religious scholars and politicians of
 the world of Islam should strengthen this movement. 
It is wrong for members of the Islamic Ummah to think that the wave 
of Islamic Awakening among youth will harm Muslim governments. Thanks to
 Islamic Awakening, Muslim governments can restore the glory that has 
been stolen from them by the arrogant powers. Our country, our 
Revolution and our Imam are a case in point. After we had suffered from 
autocracy for many centuries, after we had suffered from the domination 
of foreigners for two centuries, we became conscious and our magnanimous
 Imam (r.a.) managed to restore glory to our people. The English, the 
Russians and the Americans dominated our country in the true sense of 
the word. Although they were not ruling our country on the surface of 
it, they were in charge of every affair of the country. Our people had 
been deprived of their rights and their resources: their dignity and 
religious faith had been taken away from them.
Our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) managed to restore our dignity and 
eliminate the long-standing hegemony of autocracy and colonialism by 
returning to Islam, by adhering to Islam. He managed to give our people a
 sense of identity and made them feel that they can stand on their own 
feet, that they can say "yes" or "no" in the case of essential matters. 
Our people had been deprived of such things for centuries. It was Islam 
that gave these things to our people. In any country in any part of the 
world where the waves of Islamic Awakening are strengthened or started 
and the people and youth of that country feel that they are moving 
closer to Islam, there will be this renewed sense of identity and 
dignity. 
Of course, the enemies of Islam do not want this. Allah the Exalted 
says: "Surely satan is your enemy, so take him for an enemy" [Sura 
al-Fatir, Ayah 6]. Today America is the biggest enemy of Islam and it is
 the embodiment of evil, satan incarnated. Today the main enemy of the 
world of Islam is the arrogant powers, led by America. This is among the
 most basic principles of our Revolution and our Islamic system. The 
Islamic Revolution has been shouting this for twenty four years and 
today this is becoming tangible to the people of the world and to Muslim
 communities. The issues of Palestine and the tragedies that are taking 
place in Palestine day and night with the support of America, are in 
front of everybody's eyes. How can the Islamic Ummah close its eyes to 
these tragedies? The events that are going on in Iraq are in front of 
the eyes of the people of the world. This historical and political 
testing ground is in front of the eyes of the people of the world, 
particularly members of the Islamic Ummah.
The Americans attacked Saddam's regime in the name of democracy and 
freedom, but today they do not let the people of Iraq take their destiny
 into their own hands. They say they should be present [in Iraq].
They deprive an Islamic nation of all its rights. They say: "You 
cannot do this on your own. We have to be present. We have to give you 
democracy." What kind of democracy? Is this democracy? Is this respect 
for the rights of the people? How can they say these things after the 
mass killings that took place in Iraq? 
They said that they were after weapons of mass destruction. The 
Islamic Ummah started to ask: who provided Saddam with chemical weapons,
 weapons of mass destruction and tools of committing crimes? Was it 
anybody other than themselves who had provided Saddam with such weapons?
 It was they themselves who equipped Saddam with the tools to harm Islam
 and the Revolution. As long as they were hopeful that Saddam would 
cooperate with them and help them, they would equip him with as many 
weapons as they could. After they realized that Saddam could not do 
anything to confront the Islamic Revolution and the wave of Islamic 
Awakening in the world of Islam, they did what they did. 
The Islamic Ummah can see these things. This is a testing ground. How
 can the Islamic Ummah close its eyes to these things? These are 
lessons.
Today there is only one way for the Islamic Ummah to restore its 
dignity and identity: returning to Islam, of course genuine Islam, not a
 rigid and ineffective Islam that is mixed up with the superstitions 
that are promoted as Islam by the enemies of Islam, not an Islam that 
has been modified to fit with American principles and with what 
westerners have in mind, both of which are instances of American Islam. 
Our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) made a distinction between "American 
Islam" and "pure Muhammadi Islam". Pure Islam is the Islam of monotheism
 and Muslim unity, the Islam of "Allah will by no means give the 
unbelievers a way against the believers" [The Holy Quran, Sura an-Nisa, 
Ayah 141], "The kind of Islam that is superior to all and inferior to 
none", the kind of Islam that says, "If the people of the towns had 
believed and guarded (against evil) We would certainly have opened up 
for them blessings from the heaven and the earth, but they rejected" 
[The Holy Quran, Sura al-A'raf, Ayah 96]. Returning to this kind of 
Islam is the only solution for the Islamic Ummah and this is possible. 
Today the movement towards this kind of Islam has engulfed the entire 
world of Islam, from east to west, and this is what has panicked the 
enemies of Islam.
Do not be fooled by the propaganda campaigns of the arrogant powers. 
Do not be fooled by their show of power and the uproar they cause. They 
are afraid of Islam and this great wave of Islamic Awakening has 
panicked them. Therefore, they are forced to resort to coercion. Even 
coercion will prove useless for them and it will not solve their 
problem. Coercion can wipe out governments, but it cannot wipe out great
 Islamic and popular movements. The Islamic Ummah is awakening. The 
Islamic Ummah is rising up. They have realized this. The future of the 
Islamic Ummah is the future that Islam has delineated. As intellectuals,
 as religious scholars, as government officials, as politicians, we have
 a responsibility to delineate this future and facilitate and accelerate
 this progress. 
I hope this holy Eid is auspicious for the Islamic Ummah and I hope 
it turns into an instrument for awakening all of us. I hope Allah the 
Exalted bestows His blessings on us. I hope Allah the Exalted turns the 
attention of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his 
sake) towards us.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
