
<meta year="2013" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Basij Commanders"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and 
greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al Qassem al-Mustafa 
Muhammad and upon his immaculate, pure and chosen household, especially 
the one remaining with Allah on earth.
Greetings be upon you Abi Abdullah and upon those who laid down their
 lives for you. I will send you God's eternal greetings as long as I 
live and as long as night and day prevail. May God not make this prayer 
my last covenant with you. Greetings be upon Hussein, upon Ali ibn 
al-Hussein, upon the children of Hussein and upon the companions of 
Hussein - those who laid down their lives for Hussein (a.s.).
This meeting is a very important meeting. Basij is the manifestation 
of the greatness of our nation and the domestic capability of our 
country. This meeting is the meeting of commanders. You tens of 
thousands of commanders of Basij have gathered in this place and one can
 guess from this large gathering how glorious Basij is. You are a source
 of satisfaction, hope and trust for the supporters of the Islamic 
Republic, the Revolution and the country and you are a source of 
intimidation and fear for the ill-wishers, enemies and those who bear a 
grudge [against the Revolution and the Islamic Republic].
The coincidence of Basij Week with these days, which are the days of 
the great epic of the history of Islam, is a good and valuable occasion.
 What I mean by this great epic is the epic created by Zaynab al-Kubra 
(s.a.) which complements the epic of Ashura. The epic that Zaynab 
al-Kubra (s.a.) created revived and preserved the epic of Ashura. The 
greatness of what Zaynab al-Kubra (s.a.) did, cannot be compared to 
other great events in history. It should only be compared to the event 
of Ashura itself and truly, these two events complete one another.
This great personality and this great lady of Islam and all of 
humanity managed to stand firm in the face of the great mountain of 
hardships and there was not even a tremble in her voice because of all 
these events. She stood firm like a glorious mountain peak both in the 
face of enemies and in the face of hardships and bitter events. She 
became a lesson, a role model, a leader and a pioneer. 
At the bazaar of Kufa, while she was held captive, she made this 
astonishing speech: "Oh people of Kufa, who are treacherous and 
disloyal, do you cry for us? May your tears not dry and may your moans 
not stop. You are like a woman who loosens her threads after she pulls 
them together" [al-Ihtijaj, Volume 2, page 303]. The words are as firm 
as steel and the meaning flows like a river and it influences hearts and
 souls. In such conditions, Zaynab al-Kubra delivered a speech, which 
was like the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.), and she shook hearts and 
souls and she shook history with these words. This speech became eternal
 in history. It was delivered in front of the people while she was held 
captive.
After that, she delivered a speech in front of Ibn Ziad in Kufa and a
 few weeks later, she spoke in front of Yazid with such strength that it
 both humiliated the enemy and the hardships which the enemy had 
imposed. She said, "Do you foolishly think that you can defeat, suppress
 and humiliate the household of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.)?" "Honor 
belongs to Allah and His Messenger, and to the believers" [The Holy 
Quran, 63: 8]. Zaynab al-Kubra is the manifestation of dignity, as 
Hussein ibn Ali (a.s.) was the manifestation of dignity in Karbala on 
the day of Ashura. 
The way she looks at events is different from the way other people 
look at those events. Despite all those hardships, when the enemy wants 
to taunt her, she says, "I did not see anything except for beauty" 
[Lohuf, page 160]. She said, "What I saw was beautiful. It was 
martyrdom. Although it was difficult, it was in the way of God and it 
was done for preserving Islam. It was the creation of an epic in history
 so that Islamic Ummah knows what it should do and how it should move 
forward and stand firm". This is a great achievement made by the epic of
 Zaynab (s.a.). This is the dignity of God's saint. Zaynab al-Kubra 
(s.a.) is one of God's saints. Her dignity is the dignity of Islam and 
she made Islam and the Holy Quran valuable. 
Of course, we are not as aspirational and determined as Zaynab 
al-Kubra (s.a.) and therefore we cannot say that the behavior of this 
great lady is our model. We are too inferior to say such things, but 
anyway, our movement should be in line with the movement of Zaynab 
(s.a.). Our efforts should be focused on bringing dignity for Islam, the
 Islamic community and the entire humanity. This is the same 
responsibility that Allah the Exalted has entrusted to prophets through 
Islamic obligations and rules.
In the first part of my speech, what I want to briefly discuss with 
you dear basijis and dear youth is that one of the factors which brought
 about this spirit and this patience in Zaynab al-Kubra (s.a.) and other
 divine saints - who moved forward with such spirit and patience - is 
sincerity and honesty. It is very important to honor our promises to 
Allah the Exalted and to devote our hearts to the path of God in a 
sincere way. 
In the Holy Quran, this sincerity is necessary for divine prophets as
 well: "And remember We took from the prophets their covenant, as We did
 from you, from Noah, Abraham, Moses, and Jesus the son of Mary: We took
 from them a solemn covenant, that (Allah) may question the custodians 
of Truth concerning the Truth they (were charged with)" [The Holy Quran,
 33: 7-8]. God says that this covenant is very firm and serious. In the 
phrase "Leyasala" lam signifies results and consequences. The result of 
this covenant is that these great prophets will be questioned about 
their sincerity in this covenant. That is to say, our Holy Prophet 
(s.w.a.) and other great prophets should prove before God the level of 
their sincerity concerning the conditions of this covenant. This part is
 related to prophets. 
God also says to ordinary people and believers: "Among the Believers 
are men who have been true to their covenant with Allah: of them some 
have completed their vow (fully), and some (still) wait: but they have 
never changed (their determination) in the least, that Allah may reward 
the men of Truth for their Truth, and punish the Hypocrites if that be 
His Will" [The Holy Quran, 33: 23-24]. When addressing great prophets, 
God referred to unbelievers as the opposite of honest individuals: "And 
He has prepared for the unbelievers a grievous Penalty" [The Holy Quran,
 33: 8]. And when addressing these believers, He referred to hypocrites 
as the opposite of honest individuals and there are important points in 
this comparison. You and I will be questioned about our promise to God. 
We have a covenant with God. In the holy ayah "Among the Believers are 
men who have been true to their covenant with Allah", the pledge that 
believers made to God and that was honored by them is the same as 
another ayah in this holy sura: "And yet they had already covenanted 
with Allah not to turn their backs" [The Holy Quran, 33: 15]. 
All of us should pay attention to such points. Believers promised 
Allah the Exalted not to escape in the face of the enemy and not to turn
 their backs. The Holy Quran stresses that abandoning one's positions 
and retreating in the face of the enemy are among the things which 
should not be done. One should stand up against the enemy in any 
military, political and economic war and in any arena which is a test of
 strength. Your determination should overcome the enemy's determination.
 Your willpower should overcome the enemy's willpower. This can be done 
and this is possible. From the viewpoint of the Holy Quran and Islam, 
running away and retreating from the enemy are forbidden in any arena of
 jihad and confrontation. 
When we used the phrase "heroic flexibility", some people defined it 
as abandoning the ideals and the goals of the Islamic Republic. Some of 
the enemies too used it to accuse the Islamic Republic of betraying its 
principles. These interpretations were wrong and they misunderstood this
 phrase. "Heroic flexibility" means an artful maneuver for reaching 
one's goal. It means that the followers of God's path - any divine path -
 should utilize different methods, in any way possible, in order to 
reach their goal and this should be done whenever they move towards the 
different ideals of Islam. "If any do turn his back to them on such a 
day - unless it be in a stratagem of war, or to retreat to a troop (of 
his own)- he draws on himself the wrath of Allah" [The Holy Quran, 8: 
16]. 
Like the arena of war, any movement - whether forward or backward - 
should be launched in order to reach one's predetermined goals. There 
are certain goals and at each stage, the Islamic government pursues one 
of these goals in order to make progress, achieve transcendence and 
create the great Islamic civilization. The Islamic government should try
 to achieve this goal at this stage. Of course, there are certain stages
 and phases to reach these goals. Experts, intellectuals and officials 
in charge of this are identifying these phases and goals and, as a 
result, our collective movement will begin. Everyone should try to make 
any movement, at any stage, reach its goal. This is a proper system 
which is based on logical and rational measures. All activists in the 
arena of politics and macromanagement of the country should always keep 
this in mind. All the people and you dear basijis too - who are 
activists in the arena of Basij - should always keep this in mind.
Well, when we say that we want to move forward, does this mean that 
the Islamic government is warmongering? Does this mean that the Islamic 
government wants to confront all nations and all countries in the world?
 Sometimes one hears that the enemies of the Iranian nation - 
specifically the najis-mouthed dirty dog of the region, the Zionist 
regime - move their jaws to say that Iran is a threat for the entire 
world. This is the claim of the enemy, but this is exactly the opposite 
of Islamic principles. On the contrary, those evil and malevolent forces
 - including the fake Zionist regime and some of its supporters - that 
show nothing except for malevolence, are a threat for the entire world. 
The lesson that the Islamic government learned from the Holy Quran, 
the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.) and the Commander of the Faithful 
(a.s.) is a different lesson: "Allah commands justice and the doing of 
good" [The Holy Quran, 16: 90]. Allah the Exalted invites us to 
administer justice and do good. The commander of the Faithful (a.s.) 
said that we should be kind to everyone because "Those who have the same
 religion as you have, they are brothers to you, and those who have 
religions other than that of yours, they are human beings like you" 
[Nahjul Balaghah, Letter 53]. People are either your Islamic brothers or
 human beings like you. This is the logic of Islam. We want to render 
services and show kindness to everyone. We want to establish a friendly 
and kind relationship with all human beings and all nations. We even 
have no enmity with the American people despite the fact that the 
government of America is an arrogant, hostile and evil government which 
bears a grudge against the Iranian nation and the Islamic Republic. The 
American people are like other peoples.
What the Islamic Republic
 is opposed to is arrogance. The hostility of the Islamic Republic is 
oriented towards global arrogance. We are opposed to and fight against 
arrogance. Arrogance is a Quranic word and it has been used in the Holy 
Quran to refer to people like Pharaoh and the groups of people who are 
ill-wishers and who are opposed to truth. Arrogance existed in the past 
as well and it has continued to prevail until the present time. In all 
eras, arrogance has had the same structure. Of course, it has used 
different methods and tactics in different eras. There is arrogance 
today as well and it is led by the United States of America.
We should know arrogance and its characteristics. We should know the 
methods and the orientation of arrogance so that we can organize our 
behavior in the face of arrogance. We are opposed to unreasonable 
behavior in all arenas. We believe that we should move forward with 
wisdom and acumen in all arenas, in all collective and individual 
orientations and in all plans. If we do not know the scene, if we do not
 know our friends and our enemies, if we do not know imperialism and 
arrogance in the present time, then how can we move forward with wisdom 
and acumen? How can we make accurate plans? Therefore, we should know 
these things.
What I am saying about arrogance is a few examples regarding the 
behavior of today's global arrogance in the world. In many of these 
examples and cases, today's arrogance shares the characteristics of 
arrogance in previous centuries and previous eras. One of the 
characteristics of arrogance is egotism. When arrogant groups - those 
people who have taken everything in their hands as the highest-ranking 
individuals in a country, in a group of countries or in a global system -
 consider themselves to be superior to other people, when they regard 
themselves as the pivot, when they place everyone, except for 
themselves, on the periphery, then a wrong and dangerous equation will 
be formed in global interactions. 
When arrogance views itself as superior and as the pivot and core [of
 everything], then the result will be that it grants itself the right to
 interfere in the affairs of other people and other nations. If 
arrogance considers something to be a value and if other people do not, 
this will grant it the right to interfere in their affairs and bully and
 pressure them. This egotism makes them claim to be the guardian of 
nations and to be responsible for global management. It also makes them 
consider themselves to be the boss of all the people in the world. 
As you can hear, American officials and politicians speak about the 
government of America as if it were the leader of all countries. They 
say that they cannot let this be done. They say, "We cannot allow this 
person to be or not to be in charge". They speak about our region in a 
way that it seems they are the owners of this region. They speak about 
the Zionist regime in a way that it seems regional nations have to 
accept this imposed and fake regime. They behave towards independent 
nations and governments as if they did not have the right to live. This 
egotism and this attitude of considering oneself to have a special 
position among all people, all nations and all human beings is the main 
foundation on which arrogance has been built and this is its biggest 
problem. 
This egotism will lead to another characteristic and another 
criterion for arrogance which is the tendency to ignore other people's 
rights. They neither accept truth nor the rights of other nations. They 
do not at all acknowledge other people's rights. In international 
negotiations, someone says something which is right, but America does 
not accept it. It tries to deny such rights with different methods and 
it does not accept truth. This has happened many times. In the present 
time, one of the examples of this behavior is our current issues related
 to nuclear activities and industries. Imagine that someone says 
something which is true. If one is fair, reasonable and rational, he 
should give up when he faces the truth. But arrogance does not give up. 
It hears the truth, but it does not accept it. This is one of its 
characteristics. It does not acknowledge the rights of other nations 
either. It does not acknowledge the right of a people to choose, to do 
what they want and to adopt those economic and political measures which 
they want. They believe in imposing things on other nations.
Another characteristic of colonialism and arrogance is that it 
condones crimes against nations and the entire humanity and that it is 
indifferent towards such crimes. This is one of the greatest disasters 
of arrogance in modern times. Modern times means the era of scientific 
progress and the era of the emergence of dangerous weapons. When these 
weapons became available to arrogant powers, they created a disaster for
 all nations. They do not attach any value on the lives of individuals -
 those individuals who do not follow, obey and surrender to them. 
There are many examples in this regard. One example is the behavior 
of arrogant powers towards Native Americans - those people whose 
financial and natural resources, whose geography and whose entire 
properties are in the hands of non-natives now. Well, there were native 
people in America. Their behavior towards these Native Americans was so 
violent and so disgusting that it is one of the darkest points in the 
history of modern America. The Americans themselves have written many 
things about the massacres that took place and the pressures that they 
exerted. The same thing was done by the English in Australia. The 
English hunted people, for pleasure, like animals and like kangaroos. 
They did not attach any value on the lives of human beings. This is only
 one example. There are hundreds of examples which have been recorded in
 their own history books. 
Another example is the nuclear bombardment that was launched in the 
year 1945 of the Christian calendar - that it to say, the year 1324 of 
the Hijri calendar - when the Americans destroyed two Japanese cities 
and, as a result, hundreds of thousands of people were killed. Over the 
course of time, the number of people who suffered from deformities and 
different diseases because of nuclear radiations was several times 
larger than this and these problems have persisted until the present 
time. They did not have any cogent reason for this - I will refer to 
this later on. They easily dropped these bombs. Until now, atomic bombs 
have been used twice and both times, they were used by the Americans who
 consider themselves to be the main responsible party for the nuclear 
issues of other countries. 
They like to forget these events, but it is not forgettable. All 
these lives were destroyed, but it was not at all important to them. For
 arrogance, the lives of human beings have no value and it is easy for 
arrogant regimes to commit crimes. They massacred the people in Vietnam.
 In Iraq, their security services and their mercenary security agencies -
 such as Blackwater which I referred to in the year 1390 - committed 
certain crimes. They are still committing crimes in Pakistan with their 
drones. In Afghanistan, they conduct a number of bombardments and they 
commit crimes. They are not afraid of committing crimes in each area 
they can get their hands on and in each area their interests dictate. 
These crimes include murder and torture. The Guantanamo prison - which 
belongs to the Americans - still has prisoners. It is 10, 11 years now 
that they have been arresting a number of people from different 
countries and putting them in this prison on different charges. They 
have been keeping them in this prison without any trial and with 
extremely difficult conditions and they have been torturing them. In 
Iraq, the Abu Ghraib prison was one of the American prisons. In this 
prison, they used to torture and set dogs on prisoners.
Looting the vital resources of other nations is easy for them. 
Capturing and enslaving Africans is one of the tragic events in history 
which American imperialism and other such regimes do not like to be 
reviewed. They do not like the issue of enslaving the people of Africa 
to be reflected on. They used to sail ships from the Atlantic Ocean and 
anchor them on the coast of West African countries such as Gambia and 
other countries in this continent. Then, they used to go and capture 
hundreds of thousands of men and women and old and young people with 
guns and other weapons which were not available to people at that time. 
While these people were in difficult conditions, they were taken to 
America on such ships for slavery. They captivated free people who were 
living in their houses and in their own cities. In the present time, the
 black people who live in America are the descendents of those slaves. 
For several centuries, the Americans exerted such an eccentric pressure 
and there are many books in this regard such as the book "Roots" written
 by Alexander Haley. This book is a very valuable book for showing part 
of these crimes. How can today's modern man forget such events? Despite 
all these crimes, the white people continue to discriminate against 
blacks in America.
Another characteristic of arrogance is deception and hypocritical 
behavior. You should pay attention to this issue. They try to justify 
the crimes which were referred to and they try to show that they were 
rendering services by committing these crimes. Global arrogance, which 
intends to dominate all nations, is frequently using this method in its 
entire life: the method of justifying crimes and taking on the 
appearance of rendering services. When the Americans want to apologize 
for their attack on Japan - that is to say, the two bombs which exploded
 in Hiroshima and Nagasaki - they say, "Although tens of thousands or 
perhaps hundreds of thousands of people were killed by the two bombs 
that we dropped on these two cities, this was the cost of ending World 
War II. If we the Americans had not dropped these bombs, the war would 
have continued. If we had not done this, then two million people - 
instead of the 200 thousand people who were killed as a result of these 
bombs - would have been killed. Therefore, we rendered a service by 
dropping these bombs". 
Notice that this is a statement which the Americans make in their 
official propaganda. Now, around 65 years have passed from that day, but
 they have repeatedly said this. This is one of the deceptive and 
hypocritical statements and one of the elaborate lies that is not made 
and told by anyone except arrogant regimes. These bombs were dropped on 
and exploded in these two cities in the summer of the year 1945 of the 
Christian calendar and this crime was committed in that year. This was 
while four months before that - that is to say, in the early spring of 
1945 - Hitler, who was the primary warmonger, had committed suicide. 
Moreover, Mussolini - the president of Italy at that time, who was the 
second important element in the war - had been arrested and the war was 
practically over. Japan too, which was the third important element in 
the war, had announced that it was ready to surrender. Therefore, there 
was practically no war, but these bombs were dropped anyway. Why? It is 
because these bombs had been built and they must have been tested 
somewhere. Certain weapons had been built and they must have been tested
 somewhere. Where should they test them now? The best option was to drop
 these bombs on the innocent people of Hiroshima and Nagasaki with the 
excuse of war so that it becomes clear whether these bombs work properly
 or not. Such is their deceit. 
They claim to be the supporters of human rights, but they target the 
Iranian passenger plane in the air and they kill about three hundred 
passengers who are unaware of this. Moreover, they do not apologize and 
they award a medal to the person who commits this crime. You have heard 
that in recent weeks, the Americans - from the President to 
lower-ranking politicians - have created uproar about the use of 
chemical weapons in Syria. They accused the Syrian government of using 
chemical weapons. I do not want to judge who has used these weapons. Of 
course, evidence shows that terrorist groups have used them, but anyway,
 they said that the Syrian government has used such weapons. They 
created uproar about this and they said that the use of chemical weapons
 is our red line. American officials said this 10 times or more. But not
 only did the government and the regime of the United States of America 
not express any opposition to Saddam's use of chemical weapons during 
its criminal attacks on Iran, but it also provided him with 500 tons of 
hazardous and lethal chemicals which could be turned into mustard gas. 
Many of our dear youth of those times are still suffering from the 
effects of those chemicals and it is several years that they have been 
suffering from various diseases. The Americans helped Saddam to be 
equipped with such chemicals. Of course, he had bought such chemicals 
from other countries as well, but it was America that provided Saddam 
with 500 tons of lethal chemicals - which could turn into mustard gas - 
and that helped him to use it. After that, when the United Nations 
Security Council decided to issue a resolution against Saddam, it was 
America that prevented this. This is the meaning of hypocritical 
behavior. On the issue of Syria, the use of chemical weapons is a red 
line, but on the issue of Iran, it can be allowed and supported. This is
 because on this issue, chemical weapons are used against an independent
 Islamic government and against a nation which does not want to give in 
to America. 
These are some of the characteristics of arrogance. Of course, the 
characteristics of arrogance are more than these. Arrogant powers wage 
wars, create discord and confront independent governments. They even 
confront their own people when the interests of specific groups dictate 
so. During the war that Saddam waged against Iran, they offered all 
kinds of help - which was possible for them - to Saddam. I referred to 
the case of chemicals, but they also gave him secret information about 
Iran. After the war, when the head of intelligence services of Saddam 
was interviewed, he said, "I used to go to the U.S. embassy in Baghdad 
three times a week and they gave me a sealed package in which all 
satellite information about the movements of the Iranian Armed Forces 
existed and therefore, we knew where they were". They offered such kinds
 of help to Saddam.
The Islamic government is opposed to such arrogance. The Islamic 
government is not opposed to people and nations. It is not opposed to 
human beings. Rather, it is opposed to arrogance. This opposition has 
existed since the time of Abraham - God's Friend - Noah, the Holy 
Prophet of Islam and other great prophets and it has continued until 
today. Since that time, the camp of right has confronted arrogance. Why 
is that? Why does today's Islamic government confront arrogance? It is 
because arrogance with the characteristics that I described cannot 
tolerate an Islamic government such as the Islamic Republic of Iran. It 
is because the Islamic Republic of Iran was formed on the basis of 
opposition to arrogance. The Revolution was carried out in Iran in 
opposition to arrogance and the agents of arrogance. It was formed on 
the basis of this opposition. It grew, it became strong and it 
challenged the logic of arrogance on the basis of this opposition. 
Arrogance cannot tolerate this unless it is frustrated. 
The Iranian people, the Iranian youth, the Iranian activists and 
those Iranians who believe in their homeland and their country for any 
reason - even if it may be a non-Islamic reason - should do something to
 make the enemy hopeless. The enemy should become hopeless. It is very 
difficult for global arrogance and for the government of the United 
States of America in the present time to see that in this sensitive 
region - in West Asia, which is the one of the most sensitive regions in
 the world in terms of politics and economy and which influences the 
entire world - a country, a government and a people have emerged who do 
not consider themselves to be dependent on and to be the followers of 
this self-proclaimed superpower. This Islamic government is independent 
and despite the strong opposition that it is faced with, it overcomes 
all problems and hardships. As the Americans themselves admit, this 
government is challenging the influence of America in the region and it 
is extending its own influence. 
This Islamic government is becoming a role model for regional nations
 and this is very difficult for the Americans to tolerate. The Americans
 want to say that the lives of all nations depend on America. Now a 
people have emerged who not only are not dependent on America, but who 
also have not been influenced by all these hostilities. From the first 
day, the Americans did whatever they could, but it was not effective. 
These people have achieved growth and they have become stronger on a 
daily basis. 
The hostilities that the government of the United States of America 
has shown against the Islamic Republic happened during the time of 
different presidents, but all of these hostilities are of the same 
nature. All of these hostilities are the same. Therefore, no one should 
say that such and such a plot was hatched during the time of such and 
such a president and this plot has not been hatched during the time of 
the current President of America. This is not the case. All of these 
presidents behave in the same way. First, they provoked ethnicities in 
Iran, then they launched a coup d'etat and after that, they made Iraq 
attack us. The next thing that they did was to help our enemy - which 
was the regime of Saddam - in his war against us and after the war, they
 imposed sanctions on us. Then, they provoked all media networks in the 
world and they made them align themselves against the Islamic Republic. 
All of these things have been done during the time of different 
presidents of America and now too, these things are being done. 
In the fitna of the year 1388 - during the term of the current 
President of America - one of the social networks, which could be used 
to further the goals of fitna and those who provoked the fitna, needed 
to fix some technical problems. The government of America asked this 
network to delay fixing these technical problems because they hoped to 
overthrow the Islamic Republic with the help of media activities and 
networks such as Facebook, Twitter and other such networks. They had 
these foolish delusions. Therefore, they did not let this network fix 
its technical problems and they said that it should delay it and attend 
to this task which is more important. 
They used all kinds of tools against the Islamic Republic and 
sanctions are one of these tools. From their viewpoint, this tool is 
enough for defeating the Islamic Republic. Their mistake is that they do
 not know the Iranian nation. Their mistake is that they do not know the
 element of faith and unity among our people. Their mistake is that they
 did not learn a lesson from their past mistakes. Therefore, they hope 
that they can bring the people of Iran to their knees by imposing 
sanctions, exerting pressures and other such measures. Of course, they 
are making a mistake. The permanent experience of the Islamic Republic 
during the past 35 years shows that the only way to get rid of the 
interference of the enemy is national power and national resistance. 
This is the only factor which can make the enemy retreat. Of course, the
 enemy is the enemy. He uses all kinds of tools. As I said, he has used 
and is using sanctions. We should know what it is that can help us 
achieve our goal.
I would like to say a few things about Basij and after that, I would 
like to briefly speak about the current issues regarding our foreign 
policies. As I said, Basij is a source of dignity for the country and 
the Islamic Republic. Why? It is because the meaning of Basij is the 
presence of all the people in arenas of fundamental activities for the 
sake of the people and the country. Any government that has people by 
its side and any country in which the people show their presence and 
move towards a specific direction, will definitely achieve victory. This
 is completely clear. Countries receive a blow and they are defeated 
whenever the people are not present on the scene or whenever they do not
 have unity of action. Whenever the people are present on the scene and 
whenever there is unity among them, victory and progress will be 
certain. Basij is the example of such presence. Basij is the 
manifestation of the presence of the people on the scene and the unity 
of the people. We should adopt such an outlook towards Basij.
On the issue of sincerity, which I referred to in the beginning of my
 speech, Basij has emerged victorious out of the test of sincerity. 
Basij was put to this test during the imposed war and the Sacred Defense
 Era which was a time when the country was in difficult conditions. 
Also, during the different events that took place after the Sacred 
Defense Era until the present time, Basij has emerged victorious out of 
the test of sincerity. The Basij organization has shown that it enjoys 
sincerity. Of course, in my opinion, Basij is not confined to this 
number of people who are active in the Basij organization. There are 
many people whose hearts are with you. They praise and respect you and 
they appreciate your value. These people are not active in the Basij 
organization, but they are basijis as well. In my opinion, those people 
who believe in and respect your values and who respect your efforts, 
your services and your jihad are basijis as well. Being present on the 
scene is one of the most important tasks. 
Moreover, the capabilities of Basij help us solve problems. 
Fortunately, today inside the organization of Basij, there are many 
scientific, artistic, social and political personalities and there are 
many social activists and people who can influence the people. Until 
today, Basij has represented a group of people who have been achieving 
growth and transcendence on a daily basis and it should act in the same 
way from now on too.
What I recommend is that we should increase the capabilities of 
Basij. There are certain prerequisites for this: moral, behavioral and 
practical prerequisites. Moral prerequisites means that we should build 
and develop Islamic virtues in our hearts and souls. A number of these 
virtues are patience, forgiveness, fortitude, self-control and humility.
 We should strengthen these characteristics in ourselves. Behavioral 
prerequisites means that we should utilize these virtues when we 
interact with the people, the environment, society and human beings in 
general. Imam Sadiq (peace and greetings be upon him) used to say to his
 companions, "You should act in a way that whenever people see you, they
 say, 'These people are the companions of Imam Sadiq. God's mercy be 
upon Imam Sadiq. You should make us be proud of you'" [al-Kafi, Volume 
2, page 233]. Each and every one of you dear basijis, you dear youth 
with your pure and enlightened hearts and souls should behave towards 
all the people - as I said, many of the people are basijis in the real 
sense of the word - in a way that they say, "These people are students 
of the Islamic government. They are a source of respect for the Islamic 
government and the Islamic Republic". 
And practical, jihadi and social prerequisites are the tasks that 
should be carried out. That is to say, we should strengthen these 
virtues in ourselves. It means that we should behave in a kind, diligent
 and praiseworthy way towards the [social] environment. It means that we
 should act in a serious way in all arenas including the arena of 
science, the arena of social services, the arena of work, the arena of 
politics and the arena of production. Wherever you are, you should work 
in a serious way without any feeling of tiredness and any laziness. We 
should work. This great group of basijis - tens of thousands of people 
from this great group are present in this meeting - can move the country
 towards positive paths in the real sense of word. This group of people 
can be a source of solidity and stability. It can be a source of 
grandeur for the Islamic Republic and thankfully it is playing such a 
role today. Today, Basij is a source of grandeur and honor for the 
Islamic Republic.
I would like to raise a point about the recent contentions over the 
arena of foreign policies, our nuclear issues, the current negotiations 
and other such things. First of all, I insist on supporting the 
officials who are in charge of this. I support all administrations and 
all officials - whether officials in charge of domestic affairs or 
officials in charge of foreign affairs - and this is our responsibility.
 I myself have been an executive official. I have been in the middle of 
the arena and I felt with all my heart the difficulty of the work. I 
know that the responsibility of managing the country is difficult. 
Therefore, these officials need help and I help and support them. This 
is one part of the issue which is clear. On the other hand, I also 
insist on establishing the rights of the Iranian nation including the 
issue of our nuclear rights. We insist that these officials should not 
even take one step back on the rights of the Iranian nation. Of course, 
we do not interfere in the details of these negotiations. There are 
certain red lines and limits in this regard. These limits should be 
observed. We have said this to officials in charge and it is their 
responsibility to observe these limits. They should not be afraid of the
 fuss that the enemies and opponents make. They should show no fear in 
the face of such fuss and uproar.
Everyone should know that primarily, the sanctions which have been 
imposed on the Iranian nation result from the arrogant grudge of 
America. The grudge that the Americans bear against us is like the 
grudge of a camel. They want to exert pressures on the Iranian nation in
 the hope that they can perhaps make the Iranian nation surrender. They 
are making a mistake because the Iranian nation will not surrender to 
anyone under pressure. You Americans have failed to know the people of 
Iran. They are a people who can, by Allah's favor, endure these 
pressures and who will turn these threats and pressures into an 
opportunity. By Allah's favor, the Iranian nation will do this.
We have had certain weak points in the area of economic decisions and
 plans. These weak points have made the enemy feel that he can create a 
rift. This is an opportunity for us to know and eliminate these weak 
points and, by Allah's favor, we will eliminate them. The Americans 
should know and I think they know that sanctions do not work. The reason
 why we say they themselves know that sanctions do not work is the 
military threats they issue. Well, if sanctions can serve the purpose, 
then why do they issue military threats? This shows that sanctions have 
not served the purpose and that they do not work. They have to issue 
military sanctions. Of course, the act of issuing military threats is a 
very disgusting and despicable act. Instead of issuing military threats 
against different countries, you Americans should go and improve your 
own devastated economy. You should do something so that your government 
will not be shut down for 15, 16 days. You should go and pay your debts.
 You should think of improving your own economy.
As I said, the Americans should know that the Iranian nation behaves 
in a brotherly way towards all nations: "Those who have the same 
religion as you have, they are brothers to you, and those who have 
religions other than that of yours, they are human beings like you". The
 people of Iran respect other nations, but they behave towards 
transgressors in a way that they become regretful. They slap 
transgressots across the face in a way that they will never forget. The 
Americans consider themselves responsible for saying something in 
support of the Zionist regime and the capitalist Zionists and this is a 
source of weakness and humiliation for them. In fact, the Zionist regime
 is a regime whose foundations are extremely shaky. The Zionist regime 
is doomed to destruction. It is a regime which is imposed [on regional 
nations] and it has been formed on the basis of bullying. Any phenomenon
 and any organism which has come into being by use of force cannot 
survive and this regime cannot survive either. The support of the 
Americans - who are indebted to Zionist capitalists - for the wretched 
Zionist regime is a source of disgrace for them. Unfortunately, a number
 of European countries flatter this regime. These Europeans go and 
flatter these creatures who do not deserve to be called human beings and
 they humiliate themselves and their people in front of these creatures.
 The leaders of the Zionist regime are really like wild animals and one 
cannot call them human beings. 
One day in Europe, the French nation gained a good political 
reputation because the president of France in those days did not allow 
England to enter the European Community due to the fact that England was
 dependent on America. This became a source of dignity for France. On 
that day, the dignity of the French government increased because it 
stood up against America and because it did not let England - which was 
dependent on America - enter the European Community. A people achieve 
dignity in such a way. Today, the politicians of this country [France] 
go and humble themselves not only before America, but also before these 
damned and dirty Zionists. This is a source of humiliation for the 
French nation. Of course, the people of France themselves should find a 
cure for this problem.
I would like to speak to you dear youth about a few things. You youth
 should know that without a doubt, the bright and promising future of 
this country and the Islamic Republic belongs to you. You will manage to
 help your country and your people reach the peak of glory. By Allah's 
favor, you will be able to build a perfect model of the modern Islamic 
civilization in this country. In order to carry out these great tasks, 
you should promote and strengthen - as much as you can - religion, 
piety, morality and purity of soul among yourselves. Today's youth need 
religion, piety, science, enthusiasm, trustworthiness, morality, social 
services and physical exercise. These are the things which today's youth
 need and by Allah's favor, you dear basijis will succeed in doing this.
Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household 
(a.s.), bestow Your blessings on these people and on all the basijis of 
our country. Dear God, make the Iranian nation conquer the peaks of 
honor on a daily basis. Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad 
(s.w.a.) and his household (a.s.), make the immaculate soul of Imam 
satisfied with us and with these people. Dear God, make the pure souls 
of martyrs satisfied and pleased with us. Dear God, by the blessedness 
of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household (a.s.), make the holy heart of 
the Imam of the Age satisfied and pleased with us and hasten the 
re-appearance of this great Imam. Make us be among his companions and 
his accompanying mujahids and make us be martyrs by his side.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings


