
<meta year="2013" title="Leader Meets with Students on &quot;National Day of Fighting Against Global Arrogance&quot;"/>
Today,
 the warm presence of you dear youth in this hussainyyah is a reminder 
and a manifestation of the epic and enthusiasm which has been the 
supporter and guarantee of the revolutionary movement of the Iranian 
nation over the course of many years- from the beginning of the 
Revolution until today. The great blessing of God on our country and on 
the Islamic Republic is the existence of youth with their clear, strong 
and reasonable motives, with their pure hearts and with their sincere 
intentions.
Our meeting today has been scheduled on the anniversary of the 
events of the 13th of Aban which occurred over the course of different 
years - before and after the victory of the Revolution in the country. 
There are three events: Imam's exile in the year 1343, the ruthless 
slaughter of students in Tehran in the year 1357 and the courageous 
movement of students in capturing the Den of Espionage in the year 1358.
 
Each of these three events was in some way related to the 
government of the United States of America. In the year 1343, Imam (may 
God bestow paradise on him) was exiled because of his opposition to 
"capitulation", which meant preserving the security of American agents 
in Iran and their judicial immunity. So this event was related to 
America.
In the year 1357, the regime which was dependent on America 
killed students on the streets of Tehran and the asphalt of these 
streets was colored with the blood of our teenagers. This was done by 
America in order to defend the regime which was dependent on it. This 
event was also related to America. 

The event in the year 1358 was a counterattack. Our courageous 
and religious youth attacked the U.S. embassy and discovered the truth 
and identity of this embassy, which was the Den of Espionage, and 
presented this fact to people throughout the world. 
In those days, our youth called the U.S. embassy the "Den of 
Espionage". Today, after the passage of 30-plus years since that day, 
the name of U.S. embassies in countries which have the closest 
relationship with America - that is to say, European countries - has 
become the den of espionage. This means that our youth are 30 years 
ahead of the rest of the world. This event was related to America as 
well. These three events were related, in different ways, to the 
government of the United States of America and its relations with Iran. 
Therefore, the 13th of Aban - which is tomorrow - was named "Day of 
Fighting Against Arrogance".
What does arrogance mean? Arrogance is a Quranic term. The word 
"arrogance" has been used in the Holy Quran. An arrogant individual, an 
arrogant government and an arrogant group of people means those 
individuals and those governments which intend to interfere in the 
affairs of other human beings and other nations. They interfere in all 
the affairs of other nations in order to preserve their own interests. 
They think they are free to do anything and they grant themselves the 
right to impose different things on other nations and to interfere in 
the affairs of other countries. And they do not answer to anyone. This 
is the meaning of arrogance.
At the opposite end of the scale, there is a group of people who 
fight against arrogance. What does fighting against arrogance mean? 
Primarily, it means refusing to give in to this bullying. The meaning of
 fighting against arrogance is not convoluted and it is not complicated.
 Fighting against arrogance means the refusal of a nation to give in to 
the interference and imposition of an arrogant power, individual or 
government. This is the meaning of fighting against arrogance. By 
Allah's favor, when I have the opportunity in the future, I will have a 
detailed discussion about arrogance and fighting against arrogance with 
you youth and students. Now, there is no time. This is a brief 
definition of arrogance and fighting against arrogance.
The people of Iran consider themselves to be fighters against 
arrogance because they have not given in to the imposition of the 
government of America. The government of America is an arrogant 
government. It grants itself the right to interfere in the affairs of 
other countries. It wages wars and it interferes in the affairs of other
 countries. Today, you see that this goes beyond the borders of Asian, 
African and Latin American countries. It has reached Europe. They 
interfere in their affairs as well. The Iranian nation stood against the
 arrogance that the government of the United States of America showed. 
It stood against the interference and bullying that it caused and it 
stood against the domination that it had achieved over our dear country 
in the course of many years. 
The taghuti and monarchical regime was a regime which was 
dependent on America without any domestic support. By relying on 
America, they did whatever they wanted in Iran. They oppressed the 
people, they usurped their rights, they practiced discrimination among 
them. They prevented the country from achieving growth and making 
progress - which was the natural and historical right of the people - in
 order to promote the interests of America in Iran. The Iranian nation 
stood firm and it carried out a revolution. Then, it cut out the roots 
of arrogant powers in the country. It was not like a number of other 
countries which confronted arrogance at first, but which left it 
unfinished. Of course, these countries have received a blow because of 
this.
When I was present in a country - whose name I do not want to 
mention - which had fought against the English for many years, which had
 put an end to the oppression of the English by fighting against them 
and which had achieved independence, I saw that they had put up the 
statue of an English commander in an important recreational center. I 
said, "What is this?" And this center was named after this arrogant and 
colonialist commander who had committed thousands of crimes in that 
country. Of course, they did not gain any benefit from this 
consideration and compromise. That is to say, this country was and still
 is under pressure. 
Compromising and showing leniency towards arrogant powers will 
bring no benefit for any country. The Islamic Republic of Iran and the 
great Revolution carried out by the people of Iran confronted American 
arrogance and it did not leave this task unfinished because it had felt 
the blow which the Americans had dealt, over many years, on its skin and
 flesh. It knew who and what these people are.
The arrogant outlook which the Americans have adopted and which 
has continued since decades ago until today has made all nations in the 
world have a feeling of mistrust and hatred towards the government of 
America. This is not particular to our country. Any nation which trusted
 America received a blow, even those who were America's friends. In our 
county, Dr. Mosaddeq trusted and relied on the Americans so that he 
could free himself from the pressure of the English. Instead of helping 
Dr. Mosaddeq who had trusted them, the Americans allied themselves with 
the English.
They dispatched their agents to our country and they launched the
 coup d'etat of the 28th of Mordad. Mosaddeq trusted them and he 
received a blow for that. Even those who were on friendly terms with 
America and who had trusted this country received a blow. The taghuti 
regime had a very close relationship with America. However, the greed of
 America exhausted them as well. As I said, they imposed "capitulation" -
 the judicial immunity of American agents - on this regime and they had 
to accept this because they had no other source of support except for 
America. 
The meaning of capitulation is that if an American sergeant slaps
 a high-ranking Iranian officer across the face, no one has the right to
 sue him. If an American agent of low rank shows transgression towards a
 honorable Iranian man or woman, no one has the right to sue him. The 
Americans say, "You do not have the right to do this. We ourselves will 
resolve the issue". 
A people cannot be humiliated more than this. They imposed this 
on Iran which was their friend. They did not even show mercy to their 
friend. They threw Mohammad Reza out of their country after he fled from
 Iran and spent a short time in America. They did not let him stay. They
 did not show even this bit of loyalty to him. They are such people.
Nations and even governments do not trust America because of this
 behavior and this attitude which can be seen in its policies. Anyone 
who trusted America received a blow. Therefore, today, America is the 
most hated global power among nations. If a fair and healthy public 
opinion poll is carried out among all nations in the world, I do not 
think that the negative scores of any nation equal the negative scores 
of the government of America. Today, this is the condition of America 
throughout the world. You have heard the statements that the Europeans 
make against the Americans. 
Therefore, the issue of fighting against arrogance and "The 
National Day of Fighting against Arrogance" is a fundamental issue, one 
that is based on correct analyses and statements. And you dear youth and
 the millions of youth throughout the country, who are students like 
you, should have a correct analysis of these events. Well, the youth of 
the early years of the Revolution did not need analyses. Everything was 
clear to them because they had witnessed everything with their own eyes.
 They had witnessed the presence of the Americans and SAVAK, which had 
been taught by the Americans themselves. But today, you should think, 
analyze and be careful. This should not be only in words. It should be 
clear why the people of Iran are opposed to arrogance, why they are 
opposed to the positions of the United States of America and what their 
hatred results from. Today's youth should understand this correctly by 
carrying out research. 
Well, I would like to raise a few points about our current issues
 with America, which is a source of discussions these days. There are 
certain questions in the minds of the people. First, I want to offer an 
important and necessary piece of advice: no one should think that the 
negotiating team of our country have compromised with the other party 
which includes America - the six governments which are known as the 
P5+1. This is wrong. They are the agents of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran. They are our own children and they are the children of the 
Revolution. They are carrying out a mission and the responsibility which
 they have undertaken is difficult. They are carrying out this 
responsibility, which falls on their shoulders, with many efforts. 
Therefore, one should not weaken and insult them and use certain terms -
 which we sometimes hear such as the notion that they have compromised 
with the enemy and other such things - against an agent who is carrying 
out a task and who is in charge of an affair. The things that are said 
against them are not true. 
You should pay attention to the fact that the current 
negotiations with these six countries - including America - are only 
about the nuclear issue and nothing else. In the beginning of this year,
 I said in Holy Mashhad that there is nothing wrong with negotiations on
 particular issues. But I said that I do not trust these negotiations 
and I am not optimistic about them. However, if they want to negotiate, 
they can do it and, by Allah's favor, we will not suffer a loss in these
 negotiations.
The Iranian nation benefits from a certain experience which I 
will refer to in brief. This experience will increase the intellectual 
capability of our nation, like the experience that we gained in the year
 1382 and 1383 in the area of suspending our enrichment activities. At 
that time, during negotiations with the Europeans, the Islamic Republic 
agreed to suspend its enrichment activities for a while. But this turned
 out to be to our benefit. Why? It is because we found out there is no 
hope at all that our western partners will cooperate with us if we 
suspend our enrichment activities. If we had not accepted that optional 
suspension - of course, it was imposed in a way, but we and our 
officials accepted it anyway - some people would have said, "If you had 
retreated a little bit, all problems would have been solved and Iran's 
nuclear file would have become normal". 
That act of suspending our enrichment activities brought us this 
advantage: it became clear that problems will not be solved by 
retreating, suspending enrichment activities, postponing our work and 
cancelling many of our plans and programs. It became clear that the 
other side is after something else. We noticed this and therefore we 
started our enrichment activities again.
Today, the condition of the Islamic Republic has dramatically 
changed compared to its condition in the year 1382. In those days, we 
used to bargain for two, three centrifuges, but today several thousand 
centrifuges are working. Our youth, our scientists, our researchers and 
our officials made great efforts and moved things forward. Therefore, we
 will not suffer a loss as a result of today's ongoing negotiations.
Of course, as I said, I am not optimistic and I do not think that
 these negotiations will produce the results which the Iranian nation 
expects. However, it is an experience. This will broaden and strengthen 
the experience of the Iranian nation. It is alright to hold these 
negotiations, but it is necessary for the Iranian nation to be vigilant.
 We strongly support our officials, who are active in the camp of 
diplomacy, but our people should be vigilant. They should know what is 
happening so that some mercenary promoters of the enemy and some 
promoters who receive no rewards and who further the goals of the enemy 
out of naivety cannot mislead public opinion.
They want to instill the idea into the minds of the people that 
if we surrender to the other side on the nuclear issue, all economic, 
financial and other such problems will be solved. This is one of the 
methods which they use and one of the lies which they spread. They are 
promoting this idea. 
Of course, foreign promoters promote such ideas with very 
efficient methods. Inside the country too, some people promote the idea 
that if we back down and surrender to the other side on this issue, all 
economic and other such problems will be solved. Some of these people do
 it out of naivety without any bad intention and some people promote 
this idea intentionally. However, this idea is wrong. Why is it wrong? 
There are a few reasons why it is wrong. I would like you - including 
the people who are present in this meeting, our wise, well-informed and 
highly motivated youth and our university and school students throughout
 the country - to think about such issues. As I once said, you are the 
officers of the soft war.
One reason is that the enmity of America towards the Iranian 
nation and the Islamic Republic is not at all about the nuclear issue. 
It is wrong to think that America's hostility towards us is based on the
 nuclear issue. This is not the case. The nuclear issue is an excuse. 
Even long before the nuclear issue - that is to say, since the beginning
 of the Revolution - these hostilities and oppositions existed. Even if 
one day the nuclear issue is resolved - imagine that the Islamic 
Republic retreats, which is the thing they want - you should not think 
that these hostilities will be over. No, they will gradually make tens 
of other excuses.
For example, they will say, "why do you have missiles?", "why do 
you have drones?", "why are you on unfriendly terms with the Zionist 
regime?", "why do you not officially recognize the Zionist regime?", 
"why do you support resistance groups?" in, as they call it, the Middle 
East region and why and why and why... 
The issue is not that they have disagreements with the Islamic 
Republic about its nuclear program. This is not the case. America's 
sanctions began since the beginning of the Revolution and these 
sanctions increased on a daily basis so much so that today, it has 
reached a high level. 
They showed other kinds of hostility as well. They brought down a
 plane which belonged to the Islamic Republic and they killed 290 
humans. During the early years of the Revolution, when the people were 
still enthusiastic about the victory of the Revolution, they launched 
the coup d'etat based in Shahid Nojeh military base. They launched a 
coup d'etat against the Revolution and they supported anti-revolutionary
 elements in different corners of the country. They gave weapons and 
other such things to the anti-revolutionary camp. This is the same thing
 that they did in other countries later on. Their enmity is not based on
 the nuclear issue. The issue is something else. The Iranian nation said
 no to the requests of America. The Iranian nation said that America 
cannot do a damn thing against us. 
The Americans are opposed to the identity of the Islamic 
Republic. They are opposed to the influence and power of the Islamic 
Republic. Recently, one of the American politicians and intellectuals 
said - his speech was broadcast and this is not a confidential issue - 
that Iran is dangerous, no matter if it is atomic or non-atomic. This 
person openly said that the influence and power of Iran - as they say, 
the hegemony of Iran - is dangerous in the region. This is the kind of 
Iran which enjoys dignity, respect and power today. They are opposed to 
this kind of Iran. They will be satisfied when Iran becomes a weak, 
abandoned, isolated, untrustworthy and humiliated nation. Their enmity 
is not based on the nuclear issue. This is one point.
Another point is that in order to solve the economic issues of 
the country, all our efforts should be focused on domestic issues. The 
kind of progress and the kind of solution is valuable which is reliant 
on the domestic power of a nation. If a people rely on their own power 
and capabilities, they will no more descend into chaos when another 
country frowns at and imposes sanctions on them. We should solve this. 
All that we want to say to officials - whether past or present officials
 - is that they should look at domestic capabilities in order to resolve
 the issues and the problems of the country including economic problems.
 We have certain capacities in the country. These capacities - which 
include human, natural and geographical resources and regional location -
 should be utilized. 
Of course, we support diplomatic dynamism. When we say problems 
should be solved from the inside, this does not mean that we should 
close our eyes, that we should not benefit from diplomatic dynamism and 
that we should not interact with the world. Diplomatic dynamism and 
diplomatic presence are very necessary. The officials who do these 
things are part of the work, but we should rely on domestic issues. In 
diplomatic arenas, that country can be successful which relies on its 
innate power. That government which relies on its innate power and 
innate capacities can make others accept what it says at the negotiating
 table and achieve the desired results. Such governments are taken into 
consideration. 
An important point which should receive attention in this regard 
is that we have never become desperate in the face of our enemies during
 these years and we will never become desperate in the future. During 
the first decade after the Revolution, particularly during the first 
years, we did not have access to many material resources. We did not 
have money, we did not have weapons, we did not have experience, we did 
not have organization, we did not have competent armed forces and we did
 not have military equipment. This was while our enemy was at the peak 
of his power and capability, whether the enemy which fought against us 
in the arena of war or the enemy which stood behind him - that is to 
say, the Ba'ath regime of Saddam and America, NATO and the Soviet Union 
of those days. At that time, the Reagan administration was one of the 
strongest and most powerful governments throughout the world in 
political and military arenas. This was while we lived in poverty and 
with difficult conditions, but they could not do anything to us.
Today, the situation has changed. Today, the Islamic Republic has
 weapons. Today, it has money, it has science, it has technology, it has
 the power to produce, it has international dignity, it has millions of 
youth who are ready to work and it has millions of talents. Today, we 
have such a condition. Today, our condition cannot at all be compared 
with 30 years ago. This is while the situation is the exact opposite of 
this for the opposing camp. 
In those days, the Americans were at the peak of their power, but
 today they are not. Recently, one of the current American government 
officials, who is a well-known personality, said that today America has 
reached a point where its friends do not respect it and its enemies do 
not fear it. It was he who said this, not us. They themselves mention 
such things. 
Recently, they have had some political problems. You have seen 
the disagreement of American politicians about the government's budget 
which shut down the government for 16, 17 days. They sent 800,000 
employees on involuntary leave. This is a weakness. This is 
inefficiency. They have the biggest economic and financial problems. Our
 problems are nothing compared to their problems.
And I will tell you that in the year 2001 or 2002 of the 
Christian calendar - that is to say, 10, 11 years ago - the financial 
officials of America made a certain prediction. They predicted that in 
the year 2011 or 2012, they would have a surplus of 14 trillion dollars.
 Pay careful attention to this. In 2001, their prediction for 2011 and 
2012 was this: they said that in 2011 and 2012 they would have a surplus
 of 14 trillion dollars. Now, it is 2013, but they have a deficit of 
around 17 trillion dollars and they do not have any surplus. That is to 
say, they miscalculated this figure up to 30 trillion dollars. This is 
their economic condition. This is the way they calculate. This is the 
condition in the opposing camp.
Moreover, as you can see, they have many disagreements. It is 
mutual interests which have connected them - the Americans and the 
Europeans - to one another. Otherwise, deep inside, they are on 
unfriendly terms. The French nation hates the Americans. In different 
events such as the issue of Syria, the Americans could not establish a 
partnership with a government which has the closest relationship with 
them. That is to say, even the English said that we would not take part 
in this issue. This is while about 40 governments cooperated with them 
when they attacked Iraq. When they attacked Afghanistan, about 30 
governments cooperated with them. The Americans have such a condition in
 the present time.
We have a very good condition. We have made progress, we have 
become powerful and our people have become a well-informed people. Of 
course, they exert pressures on us. We should endure and pass through 
these pressures by relying on our domestic capabilities. This is a wise 
thing to do and it is being done. Of course, as I said earlier - and I 
would like to repeat this - we approve of the efforts that the honorable
 administration and the officials of the country are making. This is an 
important task and experience and it is most probably a valuable course 
of action. They can do this. If they achieve results, then so much the 
better. But if they do not achieve results, this should mean that the 
county must stand on its own feet in order to solve its problems. I 
would like to repeat my previous advice: you should not trust the enemy 
which smiles at you. We would like to offer this advice to our 
officials, who are our children. Those officials who are working in the 
arena of diplomacy are our own children and our own youth. This is our 
advice to them: you should take care not to be misled by a deceptive 
smile. You should see the subtleties of the enemy's plans.
Today, the Americans have the most troubles with the deviated 
Zionist regime- more than any other regime. They have the most 
consideration for Zionist lobbies. They show consideration for them and 
we see the situation. The claws of wealthy and powerful Zionist 
individuals and companies have such domination over the U.S. government 
and the U.S. Congress that they have to show consideration for them. We 
do not have to show consideration for the Zionists. 
Since the first day we said - and we say it today and we will say
 it in the future - that we consider the Zionist regime to be an illegal
 and bastard regime. It is a regime which has come into being with 
conspiracy and it is being preserved and guarded with conspiracy and 
conspiratorial policies. The Americans show consideration for this 
regime. The reason why they do this requires another detailed 
discussion. The money, power and capital of the Zionists is doing a good
 job and it is influencing these poor Americans. Therefore, the 
Americans have to show some consideration for them. 
It is not only the Americans who have such a condition. Many 
other western politicians, these poor creatures, have the same problem. 
They too have the same problem. Therefore, our officials should pay 
attention and they should look at their statements. On the one hand, 
they smile and they show interest in negotiations and on the other hand,
 they immediately say, "All options are on the table". So what? What 
move can they make against the Islamic Republic? 
If they are serious about these negotiations, they should control
 themselves. They should stop those people who open their mouth to talk 
nonsense. A certain wealthy American politician had the audacity to say 
that they should drop an atomic bomb in such and such a desert in Iran 
and that they should issue such and such threats. Well, they should 
smash this person's mouth! 
A government which suffers from the delusion that it has a 
responsibility towards all the issues in the world and a government 
which considers itself responsible for dealing with the nuclear issue of
 such and such a country should not dare to issue nuclear threats - 
particularly in such a time - against a country with such a good 
condition. They should stop those people who talk nonsense. 
Anyway, our people are, thankfully, a vigilant people and our 
officials are the officials of these people. They too are vigilant and 
they pay full attention. We support whatever action which is to the 
benefit of the country and we support, help and pray for those officials
 who carry out such actions. But we also advise both the people and 
officials - particularly you dear youth - to open your eyes and ears. 
Any nation can achieve its lofty goals with wisdom, vigilance and 
watchfulness. 
And I hope that, by Allah's favor, the prayers of the Imam of the
 Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) will be a source of 
support for you and I hope that the immaculate soul of Imam and the pure
 souls of our martyrs pray for you. By Allah's favor, you youth will 
take the country in your own hands with your enthusiastic spirits and I 
hope that it will be your turn to reach the peaks with your innovation.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
