
<meta year="2013" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Participants of National Conference on Population Change"/>
The issue of population, which is discussed seriously in society 
and which is a point of contention, is a very important issue. Without a
 doubt, as a general policy the country should move towards an increase 
in population. Of course, this should be done in a reasonable and 
moderate way. All the criticisms and problems that are expressed in this
 regard - we have witnessed some of these criticisms and problems - can 
be answered and resolved.
What is important is that our country with its natural capacities
 and with its political geography needs a larger population. Moreover, 
as I said before, the issue of youth is a very important, fundamental 
and determining issue for the country. According to the research and 
analysis that experts have carried out and according to the statistics 
and figures that they have released, if we move forward in this way, our
 country will suffer from aging in the not too distant future and, in 
fact, there will be no cure for this malady. No one will have a cure for
 this malady, not just our country. That is to say, the countries which 
suffer from aging and infertility today can hardly find a cure for this 
problem. Naturally, we too will encounter such a problem and we should 
not let our country reach this point. Of course, considering Islamic 
principles and ideas and also the political geography of the Middle East
 region and the Islamic Republic of Iran, the issue of population and 
population increase are a clear and definite matter.
In my opinion, the conference that you gentlemen organized is one
 of the good things that have been done. We do not want to address this 
issue by chanting slogans, adopting a superficial outlook and other such
 things. We do not want to say, "Say salavat and then be done with it". 
We want to resolve the issue in a deep and analytical way so that we can
 clear up doubts in this regard and so that the truth of the matter 
becomes clear. I believe that we can do this. Our thinkers and experts 
on the issue of population - wherever they are - can present cogent and 
proper reasons for population growth. This conference is the first step.
 It is the preliminary step, but in my opinion, it is more important 
than passing laws in this regard because creating the proper culture for
 this issue and many other issues is the most important thing. 
This culture should be created but unfortunately, it does not at 
all exist today although we and other people have said that it should be
 created. This issue has also been addressed in the Majlis and other 
people have more or less discussed it. However, cultural work in this 
area has not been carried out in the proper way. 
In my opinion, what you have done is very good and appropriate. 
But you should not think that it is enough to hold a conference, deliver
 a speech and then publish a number of articles. This is necessary, but 
it is not enough. You should benefit from the resources which exist in 
the country to promote this idea among the people and this idea should 
be deep, fundamental, reasonable and convincing for anyone. Therefore, 
this issue should be worked on and you gentlemen have done this.
I usually advise the groups of people who are after organizing a 
meeting or conference that they should not view these meetings as an end
 in themselves. Rather, they should view them as an opportunity to 
pursue the matter so that the result of such meetings and conferences 
will be appropriate and praiseworthy. And you gentlemen have probably 
done this because, thankfully, you are wise, you are interested in 
research and your organization is one that has a good record in such 
areas. But you should not stop at this point.
You should consider the different aspects of this issue. You 
should see what things make our society lose interest in bearing 
children. This lack of interest in bearing children is a malady. 
Otherwise, one naturally likes to have children. Why do a number of 
people prefer to have only one child? Why do they prefer to have only 
two children? Why do women and men avoid - in different ways - having 
children? You should look at these issues and see what factors play a 
role in this. You should identify these factors and ask experts and 
thinkers to think about finding a cure for these pathological factors. I
 believe that these factors are pathological and problematic. 
You should think about different issues such as the issue of late
 marriage. Without a doubt, one of the factors which reduces fertility 
is late marriage. Well, this is one of the things which should be 
thought about in the country. Why do people marry late? Do 17, 18, 
19-year-old youth not need to satisfy their sexual needs? We should 
think about this. Well, on the one hand, they say that these youth have 
no house, job and income. We should see what we can do so that all these
 things can happen at the same time. We should not think that one should
 definitely own a house and have a highly-paid job in order to get 
married. This is not the case. "If they are needy, Allah will make them 
free from want out of His grace" [The Holy Quran, 24: 32]. This is the 
Holy Quran which is speaking to us in this way. You should resolve all 
the existing problems in this regard. The position that you enjoy and 
conferences like this require that this scientific work be done. That is
 to say, you should not merely express your thoughts, requests and 
slogans about this issue. This should really be worked on and it should 
be done in an intellectual and analytical way. 
The factors which play a role in population decline and growth 
should be analyzed in an appropriate and proper way so that outstanding 
personalities are convinced. Well, in the present time, the masses of 
the people are religious and pious. When it is announced that they 
should have more children, they accept this advice. But outstanding 
personalities in our society should be convinced of this. They should 
accept this issue. If outstanding personalities accept this, it will be 
easy to develop the proper culture. By Allah's favor, the gentlemen in 
this conference should make efforts in such areas and I hope that you 
will be successful. 
I still believe that our country should not be a country with a 
population of 75 million. Our country should have a population of 150 
million. Of course, this is the minimum figure. We can even speak of 
higher figures. Considering its vast area, its diverse climate, its 
infrastructural resources and its potential scientific capability, this 
country can definitely be a populous country and by Allah's favor, it 
will manage this population on its own. As we think what happens to a 
family if it is burdened with four, five children, we should also think 
how these four, five children can help the country make progress when 
they grow up and find a job. 
There is an outlook in our country which tries to copy western or
 European lifestyle and which has led to such a situation. This is a 
legacy which has been bequeathed to us. We too showed negligence in a 
particular period of time and we did not do what we should have done. 
This is while today a number of these western countries are suffering 
from population decline and they are regretful about this. And there are
 a number of western countries which do not suffer from a decline in 
population. That is to say, there are large families in these countries 
such as American families with 10, 12 children. So why should Iranian 
families - which copy the western lifestyle - have only one child or two
 children? These things exist in the present time and the reports that 
we receive reflect these facts. I hope that, by Allah's favor, you will 
be successful.
