
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Statements at a Question-and-Answer Session"/>
A: Cultural institutions are not all the same, and some of them are really engaged in very effective and useful activities. This fact should not be ignored. Besides, the cultural field is also one of the major infrastructures that should receive due attention.
Q: What practical measures should be taken in the face of cultural onslaught?
A: Cultural onslaught is a complicated process, since our enemies carry out their schemes and plots to subvert the religious beliefs, moral values and virtues of our nation through different ways and by making use of various media and cultural means. Therefore, countering cultural aggression should also be conducted through different ways, and a single prescription cannot be recommended for this purpose.
Q: What is the motive for the negative propaganda that is being spread against the Islamic system by certain circles both inside and outside our country?
A: This propaganda campaign is primarily aimed at tarnishing the image of Islam and Muslims. I have already said what measures should be taken to offset this negative propaganda.
Q: How do you see the future of Iraq?
A: I cannot make a definite prediction. However, there is reason to believe that the plan that U.S. officials have in mind with regard to Iraq will not materialize. What they have so far done is a prelude to their plan, not the plan itself, and they will face many problems and challenges in carrying out their actual plan.
Certain events have taken place and are happening in Iraq that U.S. officials had not predicted before. For instance, they have been taken aback by the warm welcome accorded to some Iraqi scholars and ulema by the people of that country. Furthermore, the solidarity among different Shia groups, the unity between Shias and Sunnis as well as the Iraqi people's demand for a democratic government based on their votes had not been foreseen by U.S. officials.
Therefore, because of these miscalculations, the United States is likely to suffer setbacks in Iraq. This is what I predict.
Q: Late Imam Khomeini often stated that students should bravely stand against deviations. But if this does not yield any positive results, what are we expected to do?
A: It will surely have positive results. This is because when in a democratic system like ours people ask for something to be done or performed, their demand will definitely be fulfilled. 
Q: What are the duties of students with regard to different political issues?
A: In my view, thinking deeply, coming up with a right analysis and conveying this analysis to others, especially trying to enlighten those who you think are unaware and ignorant, are among the main duties of students.
Q: Are you satisfied with the measures so far taken by the three government branches against economic and financial corruption? 
A: No, I am not satisfied with what they have so far done to combat corruption, because the measures that the three branches of government have so far taken fall short of my expectations. Nevertheless, it should be noted that they have taken some positive steps in his direction. 
Q: My question relates to your message to the student movement in November 2002. Some cultural officials and even some clerics tell us that raising objections to the cases of injustice or calling for the administration of justice in society will deal a blow to our system and revolution. What is the appropriate response to these individuals? 
A: You should tell them that calling for the administration of justice will not deal a blow to our system, but rather it will consolidate our system and revolution.
Q: To what extent is proximity among different Islamic schools of thought necessary for the accomplishment of the objectives of our Islamic system?
A: I consider this proximity quite essential for achieving the ideals of our Islamic system. I also believe that the lack of unity among Muslim nations will be harmful to the whole Islamic ummah.
Q: Considering that unemployment is one of the main problems besetting the students and driving them to despair, are there any plans to create more jobs on the government agenda?
A: The issue of creating more jobs is certainly on the government agenda, and all government organs are doing their utmost to solve the problem of unemployment. In fact, reducing unemployment is one of the main topics that I have discussed with the relevant officials and executives on several occasions, and our government is making every effort to accomplish this objective.
