
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Members of Council of Basij-e Mostazafin"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and 
greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa 
Muhammad, upon his chosen and pure household, upon his chosen companions
 and upon those who follow them with righteousness until the Day of 
Judgment.
First of all, I would like to welcome you dear brothers and sisters, 
outstanding members of the Basij society of the country and chosen 
personalities who accompanied intelligence, reason and knowledge with 
love and enthusiasm and who stepped in an arena which will definitely 
result in victory and satisfaction of God.
In one part of the Holy Quran, Allah the Exalted speaks about the 
people "Whom He loves and who love Him" [The Holy Quran, 5: 54]. They 
love God and God loves them. In another part of the Holy Quran, He says 
about these people or a group of these people, "Truly Allah loves those 
who fight in His Cause in battle array, as if they were a solid 
strengthened structure" [The Holy Quran, 61: 4]. He speaks about those 
youth, men, women, outstanding and knowledgeable personalities and 
believers who have gathered all their power and entered the arena. This 
is our definition of Basij. I hope that God rewards and bestows success 
on you. I hope that He will not stop guiding you even for one single 
moment and I hope that He increases your achievements on a daily basis.
The statements of these two dear brothers - the honorable Commander 
of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps and the head of Basij 
Mostazafin Organization - were reasonable and correct statements. They 
were strong and calculated statements. I too would like to say a few 
things:
From the very first day until today, we have seen Basij in the arena 
of action. We have seen it in different arenas, but all of these arenas 
were arenas of action. We have seen it during the Sacred Defense Era - 
the eight-year war - during the Construction era and in the course of 
developing different technologies ranging from stem cells to the nuclear
 energy. These are the achievements of Basij. We have witnessed the 
presence of basiji physicians in the hospitals which were located near 
the front lines. I myself saw those hospitals in those days. I saw that 
the enemy could target those centers with short-range shells. Different 
physicians had come from Tehran and provincial cities to offer help. As 
soon as they were informed by the front that they should go, they packed
 their bags and sacks and set out to go and work under those 
circumstances.
Basij has also been active and influential in the area of artistic 
activities and outstanding artistic works. Thankfully, these activities 
have continued until today. We have seen Basij in every arena of action.
 Of course, the arena of action is very vast - later on, I will refer to
 this issue - ranging from scientific, artistic, military and 
construction to economic and other such actions. 
In the opinion of this humble person, what has received less 
attention is the issue of the intellectual front of Basij. Basij is a 
thought, philosophy and logic. It is an intellectual system. The reason 
why everyone sees that graduates, outstanding personalities and geniuses
 from different fields of study are attracted to Basij is that Basij is 
not a movement which is purely based on feelings and emotions. There is a
 strong logic behind it. When this logic and knowledge is accompanied by
 action, it will bring about astonishing phenomena and events. What is 
the basis of this logic and philosophy?
I would like to say a few things about this philosophy which forms 
the structure of Basij and which is its source of support. I will raise 
two points in this regard and these points should be thought about, 
discussed and worked on.
The basis of this philosophy is belief in the sense of responsibility
 of human beings. Human beings are responsible creatures. The opposite 
of this philosophy is irresponsibleness, "let it go", "go and have fun" 
and "think of yourself". The intellectual basis of Basij is this divine 
sense of responsibility which is based on firm religious principles. 
Later on, I will expand on this issue. We are responsible not only 
towards ourselves, our families and our friends, but also towards the 
events of our lives and the fate of the world, our country and our 
society, whether our country and society are Muslim or non-Muslim. 
Besides, this sense of responsibility is not only towards the people who
 have the same beliefs as we do or towards the people who are believers 
and Muslims. We are responsible even towards non-Muslims and 
non-believers.
The opposite of this is self-indulgence, "let it go", laziness and 
shirking our responsibilities. The main basis of Basij is this sense of 
responsibility. The philosophy behind one's sense of responsibility is 
one of the clear principles of Islam. No one can doubt that from the 
viewpoint of Islam, human beings are responsible creatures. From the 
viewpoint of Islam, human beings are creatures who have been asked to do
 something.
Take a look at different Islamic rules such as enjoining to do good 
and advising against evil. Enjoining to do good means that all of you 
are responsible for promoting and requesting good. Advising against evil
 means denouncing evil, malevolence and indecent acts. It means 
preventing it with different methods. What is the meaning of this? It 
means responsibility towards the public health of society. Everyone is 
responsible: I am responsible, you are responsible and other people are 
responsible as well.
Another Islamic rule is jihad. In Islam, jihad is assistance to those
 peoples who exist behind the scenes of colonialist, arrogant and 
despotic policies so that they can not receive the light of Islam and 
guidance. The purpose of jihad is destroying these barriers and veils. 
This is Islamic jihad. The question whether jihad is defensive or 
offensive is a peripheral issue. The main issue is this: "And what 
reason have you that you should not fight in the way of Allah and of the
 weak among the men and the women and the children?" [The Holy Quran, 4:
 75]. Why do you not engage in jihad and battle in the way of God?
Then, this ayah immediately says, "and of the weak". Why do you not 
fight for the sake of saving the weak? This is a sense of 
responsibility. It means that you should endanger your own life in 
arenas of danger for the sake of saving the weak. This is the meaning of
 responsibility. Another example is the well-known hadith, "Anyone who 
wakes up in the morning without the intention of attending to the 
affairs of Muslims is not a Muslim" [al-Kafi, Volume 2, page 163]. There
 are many other such ayahs and hadiths in Islamic texts which are among 
the clear principles of Islam.
Islam wants people to have a sense of responsibility towards 
themselves, their relatives, their society and the entire humanity. If 
you pursue this matter in Islamic texts, you will see many astonishing 
narrations about this attention and sense of responsibility.
The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) says to God in supplication, "Oh God, guide
 my people" [Characteristics of Ali ibn Abi Talib's Household, Volume 1,
 page 193]. His people were the ones who used to beat, disown and 
threaten him. They used to cause serious trouble for him, but he says to
 Allah the Exalted in supplication, "Oh God, save, cure and guide these 
people". This is the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.).
When the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) hears that Muawiyah's army 
went and looted a city, he says in a sorrowful manner, "I have come to 
know that every one of them entered upon Muslim women and other women 
under protection of Islam" [Nahjul Balaghah, Sermon 27]. The men of this
 plundering army entered the houses of Muslims and muahids - muahids are
 Christian, Jewish and other people who live under the protection of 
Islam - and insulted women. They took away their bracelets and other 
ornaments. Then Hazrat says, "If any Muslim dies of grief after all 
this, he is not to blame". Notice that he felt responsible to such an 
extent. He does not say, "If Muslims' ruler dies, he is not to blame". 
Rather, he says, if any Muslim and other person dies of grief because 
this, he is not to blame. This is sense of responsibility. The main 
basis of Basij's movement is this: having a sense of divine 
responsibility.
The second basis which exists alongside this and which complements 
the first basis is wisdom and foresight. What does it mean? It means 
knowing the developments of the time, knowing needs and priorities, 
knowing the enemy and the friend and knowing the instrument that should 
be used against the enemy. These types of knowledge are foresight. We 
cannot always fight with one weapon. We cannot move forward in all 
arenas with only one weapon. So, which weapon should we use? Where is 
the enemy?
I have said many times that those people who lack foresight - like 
the poor people who were entangled in fitna - are like the people who 
strike an enemy and opponent in the dark and in a thick fog and haze. 
Well, they do not know where the enemy is. One of the first requirements
 in wars is having information. In a war, we should go and gather 
information to see where the enemy is. If you go without having 
information, you may aim where the friend is. You may target someone who
 is not the enemy. This way, you help the enemy. Sometimes, this 
happens.
If foresight does not exist, this is the result. There is a hadith 
which says, "A person who is up-to-date is not the target of mistakes" 
[Tohaf al-Uqul, page 356]. Doubts, lack of knowledge and stupidity do 
not attack a person who is familiar with the developments of his time 
because he knows what he is doing. If this foresight does not exist, 
there will be problems although we may be responsible people.
During the time of revolutionary activities, some people had a sense 
of responsibility, but they did not know where to expend it. They 
expended it in areas which were to the disadvantage of the great 
revolutionary movement of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.). They acted in the
 same way after the Revolution until today. Some people have a sense of 
responsibility and motivation, but they expend them in the wrong way and
 in wrong places. They do not aim the gun at the right place. This is 
because of lack of foresight.
When the issue of fitna arose a few years ago, we spoke about 
foresight. Some people jeered at this and said, "What is foresight?" 
Yes, we should have foresight. If foresight does not exist, then the 
more we have a sense of responsibility and motivation, the greater the 
danger will be. This is because the person who has no wisdom and 
foresight, who does not know the enemy and who does not understand where
 he should expend his sense of responsibility, energy and motivation 
cannot be trusted. So, this is the second basis which is very very 
necessary. If the second basis does not exist, our enjoining to do good,
 our jihad and our tasks in general are done in the wrong way and they 
deviate from the straight path.
May God's mercy and paradise be bestowed on our magnanimous Imam 
(r.a.) who thought of all these things. Imam (r.a.) - who had 
sharp-sighted eyes and who enjoyed divine foresight - derived 
inspiration from Allah the Exalted. He took from God everything that was
 necessary without studying politics anywhere or without learning it 
from anyone. These things were inspired to his pure heart. He both 
created Basij and showed the way. Imam (r.a.) did not only say to us to 
move forward, to have a sense of responsibility and to be basijis. He 
also told us what to do. He said to us, "Shower as many cries as you 
have on America". This means showing the way and teaching what to do, 
where to go and where to aim. He taught these things to us.
During the time of war and the eight-year Defense Era, he used to 
say, "The war is at the top of the agenda". We had certain 
responsibilities in those days. I was the president and other people had
 certain other responsibilities. We had thousands of tasks to carry out.
 When many executive tasks fall on the shoulders of officials, they 
sometimes show negligence. But Imam (r.a.) showed everyone - officials, 
the people and youth - the path by saying, "The war is at the top of the
 agenda". This was the case. He guided everyone by saying that they 
should pursue this task. This is important.
On the issue of participation in Syria for the sake of fighting 
against the occupying Zionist regime, our youth were very happy because 
they were supposed to go and fight. Two of them - who are among our 
great martyrs in the present time - came to me and expressed their 
happiness. In the beginning, Imam (r.a.) did not know about this. When 
he became aware, he said, "The path of fighting against Israel goes 
through Iraq". This way, he prevented everyone from going to Syria and 
those who had gone came back. Notice that this is identifying and having
 an understanding of priorities. Imam (r.a.) showed the path and the 
direction.
He said, "Preserving the Islamic Republic is one the most important 
obligations or the most important one". That is to say, all other issues
 are peripheral to this one. He showed us this direction. It is possible
 that you have a difference of opinion with your friend over a small or 
big issue, but when it comes to preserving the system, both of you are 
equally responsible.
Those who did not understand this statement of Imam's (r.a.) made 
egregious mistakes in some areas. Imam (r.a.) showed us the direction. 
This great man used to move forward in this way.
Therefore, the intellectual basis means having a sense of 
responsibility which is a firm intellectual framework for you who want 
to move forward in the arena of Basij. And the necessary prerequisite 
for this - which is the second basis - is foresight. You should not 
ignore these two bases even for one single moment. Having a sense of 
responsibility means working for the sake of satisfying God "by showing 
patience and behaving in a decent way" [speaking in Arabic]. We should 
say, "Oh God, I make this scientific breakthrough, I study this, I 
create this artistic work, I engage in this jihad, I carry out this 
economic task, I help Zaid [any person in general] and I fight against 
Amr for the sake of You because You have made me responsible". This is 
the sense of responsibility and divine commitment that you should have. 
After this, we should have wisdom. We should know where we are, where 
our location is, where the enemy's location is, who the enemy is and 
with what weapon we should fight against him. This is the second basis. 
With this outlook, both the circle of basijis and the arena of Basij's 
activities will become clear. 
As for the circle of basijis, who is a basiji? Anyone who is active 
in this ideological and human framework is a basiji. Of course, the 
resistance force of Basij is the manifestation of this great, public, 
comprehensive and national movement. The resistance force of Basij is 
the main piece, center and place in the great umbrella which has covered
 all our people. It is a source of inspiration for discipline, presence 
and movement in society, universities, schools and Islamic seminaries 
and among people from different social backgrounds. It is a source of 
inspiration in any area. The presence of the resistance force of Basij 
means this. It means channeling, providing guidance, observing 
discipline and order and identifying the different responsibilities of 
the members as much as possible. As the brothers in this meeting 
explained, resources are naturally limited. Of course, Basij has 
thankfully reached a position where tens of million people have joined 
it. This was about the circle and the scope of basijis' presence.
As for arenas, arenas are endless. They have no limits: the arena of 
defense, the arena of policy, the arena of construction, the arena of 
economy, the arena of art, the arena of knowledge and research, the 
arena of religious committees and the arena of mourning ceremonies. 
These arenas exist everywhere and they are of many different kinds. 
These are the arenas of Basij's presence which exist everywhere.
We have role models in all these arenas. We have outstanding role 
models all of whom have shown that they are outstanding and great. We 
had great sardars and outstanding personalities in the war. Some of them
 were scientific personalities. These people - such as Shahid Chamran - 
came to the war and they became soldiers with a gun in hand. Chamran was
 a scientific personality. He was also an artistic personality. He used 
to say to me, "I am skilled at photography". But he had come to the war 
and he was wearing military uniforms. He had become a soldier. But 
before entering this arena, he was an outstanding personality.
Of course, some of these role models were not outstanding before they
 entered the arena of war. It was this arena who helped them reach 
peaks. An example is Avesta Abdol-Hossein, a construction worker. In 
fact, he was a student of a construction worker, but he entered the 
arena of war and reached the sun. In the war, he reached peaks and 
became an outstanding personality, one who was very prominent. These are
 our outstanding personalities. We have many outstanding personalities 
in the area of knowledge and research. One of them was the late Kazemi 
Ashtiani who developed stem cells research and these great technologies.
 He built many people and his colleagues are like him as well. 
Thankfully today, this movement is continuing.
Another personality was Shahid Shahriari. These days, we are 
mentioning his name because it is his martyrdom anniversary. The rest 
are the same: Rezainejad, Ali Mohammadi and Ahmadi Roshan. These were 
our outstanding personalities in the area of knowledge and research. 
They used to work in a basiji manner.
Shahid Shahriari used to work in a basiji manner as well. In those 
days, they wanted to close the gates to the people of Iran with the 
methods that many of the people saw on TV and heard in the news. Many of
 these methods were adopted behind the scenes. In the future, it will 
come clear how malevolent they were. They wanted to do something to 
prevent radiopharmaceuticals from reaching the people's hands. They 
wanted to create problems for the Islamic Republic. They used to say, 
"We will not sell these radiopharmaceuticals". This was done with the 
purpose of closing our center in Tehran, but people like Shahid 
Shahriari worked on it in a diligent way. Then, they came to us and 
said, "We have managed to produce 20 percent". After that, they informed
 us that they had built fuel rods and fuel plates. The enemy was 
astonished. This was the work of basijis and it was not an ordinary 
piece of work. In all the arenas that we pointed out, there were and 
still are great individuals. They have made great efforts some of which 
we mentioned.
Well, this philosophy - which is a basiji philosophy and which was 
created by our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) in Islamic Iran - has been 
promoted. Revolutionary and Islamic concepts are like the scent of 
spring flowers. No one can prevent their scent from spreading. It goes 
everywhere. These concepts are like an enlivening and revitalizing 
breeze which cover and imbue everywhere. Now, they can create uproar and
 they can go on ranting and raving. This philosophy has already been 
promoted and you can witness it in different countries. This philosophy 
is active in Lebanon and Iraq. Iraqi youth have joined their army and 
they have managed to achieve these victories. The same is true of Syria,
 the same is true of Gaza, the same is true of Palestine, the same is 
true of Yemen and by Allah's favor, the same will happen in Holy Quds 
and in liberating al-Aqsa.
Well, this point became clear. Now, I want to say that Islamic Iran 
is invincible because of this. Those who threaten the Islamic government
 and the Islamic Republic to do such and such things should know that 
the Islamic Republic is invincible thanks to this basiji philosophy, 
action and movement. Any Iranian individual is potentially a basiji 
except for a few people who are either suffering from egotism, 
lustfulness and materialistic desires or who are working with the enemy.
 We exclude these people who are few, not many. The majority of the 
people of Iran are potentially basijis and this is the reason behind the
 invincibility of the Islamic Republic. However, everyone should pay 
full attention. There are always tests for everyone. The movement should
 not be undermined and the direction of the movement should not change. 
The direction of the movement is towards arrogance and fighting against 
it.
We - including our people and we ourselves - who mention the name of 
America do this because of its arrogance. The issue of America is 
arrogance. We mention its name because America is an arrogant 
government. Its methods are based on arrogance. We have no problems with
 America as a geographical entity, as a nation or as a group of people. 
In this sense, it is like other countries. Our issue with America is the
 issue of American arrogance. They are arrogant, conceited, thuggish and
 greedy. The statements that they made recently on the issue of nuclear 
negotiations prove this. Notice that they negotiated for several months 
and now, they have extended them. After that, they began talking, just 
like always.
Now, I would like to say a few things about these matters. First of 
all, I am not against extending negotiations as I was not against 
beginning them in the first place. We did not oppose entering into 
negotiations in the beginning and we explained to the people why we did 
this. In a speech, I explained the reasons and now we are not opposed to
 extending negotiations. 
I should add that our negotiating team are really and truly diligent 
and active. They show resistance and they speak with reason. They do not
 give in to bullying and they are working hard. Everyone should pay 
attention to this. Most people are not aware of the details of these 
negotiations. They do not know what is happening in the process. They 
are working in a serious, reasonable and diligent way and their actions 
are based on reason. Unlike the other side - mainly America - which says
 different things every day, our negotiating team behave towards them in
 a rational and powerful way. In private meetings and in their 
correspondence, the opposing parties say something, but in public 
meetings and in their public speeches, they say another thing. One day, 
they say something, another day they completely change it. When there is
 no straight path, this is what happens.
In order to solve their domestic problems, they want to use the 
negotiations. This is why they have to say different things here and 
there. Of course, Iran is alone in the face of these negotiators and the
 people who stand against Iran. They are an army. They are comprised of 
several countries behind each of which there is an army of diplomats, 
people in charge of public relations, photographers, analysts and other 
such people. The Americans are the most ill-tempered people among them 
and the English are the most devious ones. Now, they have extended the 
negotiations.
Everyone - both the other side and those people inside the country 
who are concerned about this matter and who follow these negotiations - 
should know that if negotiations fail, we are not the ones who suffer 
the most loss. Rather, it is the Americans. We are honest with our 
people. We say to our people what the truth of the issue is and they 
have already understood what the truth is. With different reasons, we 
can prove that the real goal of arrogance and the west in the face of 
Iran is to prevent the people of Iran from achieving growth and power. 
Their real goal is to prevent the increasing dignity of the people of 
Iran.
The nuclear issue is merely an excuse and of course, there are other 
excuses as well. The main issue is that the talents of the people of 
Iran are gradually being revealed, that they are making progress in all 
dimensions - including political, scientific and social dimensions - and
 that they are achieving power. This is why they are dissatisfied and 
unhappy. This is what they want to prevent.
And the purpose of sanctions and pressures is this. The purpose of 
sanctions and economic pressures is to prevent the developing efforts of
 the people of Iran. This is why they impose sanctions and exert 
economic pressures. Of course, economic pressures are an important 
factor. We speak freely with our people, but they do not do so and they 
do not believe in their people. The popularity of their president has 
dwindled on a daily basis. I am saying this according to the statistics 
that they themselves have released. The day that president was elected, 
he enjoyed great popularity, but since then, his popularity has 
decreased on a daily basis. This is because their people do not believe 
in their political system.
In the recent elections in America, the turnout was very low. They 
themselves have acknowledged and mentioned this. This signifies that 
their own people do not believe in their political system. They are not 
optimistic about it. Compare this with the presence of 65, 70 percent of
 our people in ballot boxes. But they have problems with all their 
people. You have heard the news about Ferguson, the state of Missouri 
and other such cities. They are fighting against their own people. Their
 own reports say that America's police have killed more than 400 people 
with different reasons in the course of one year. This has been done by 
the police, not their judiciary system. They are not in good terms with 
their own people and their people do not believe in them. So, they have 
problems. It is they who need an achievement and a great victory, not 
us.
One of the members of our negotiating team said an interesting thing.
 He said, "Even if we do not reach an agreement, it is not the end of 
the world and it is not a catastrophe. Nothing happens if we do not 
reach an agreement". This is true. We will not suffer the loss that they
 think we will. They thought that if such and such things happen, we 
will suffer a loss. This is not the case. There is a solution for this. 
The solution is the economy of resistance which reduces the effects of 
the enemy's blows. This is related to the short term. In the medium and 
long terms, it even helps the great movement of the people to reach its 
peak. The economy of resistance is like this. This was the judgment that
 experts in economic areas made after we announced the policies on the 
economy of resistance. We have certain solutions, but they do not.
Despite all this, they move in an arrogant way. You should listen to 
the statements that they made a few days ago. They say, "Iran should 
earn the global community's trust". They refer to themselves as the 
global community. Now, America, England, France and a few arrogant 
countries have become the global community. Is this the global 
community? Are the 150 non-aligned countries which held a congress in 
Tehran two years ago not part of the global community? About 50 
presidents and rulers participated in an active way in Tehran's 
congress. Are they not the global community? Are the billions of people 
who live in these countries not the global community? Are these few 
countries, in which the people are mostly separated from their rulers, 
the global community? "Earn the global community's trust" means "Earn 
the trust of us Americans". We do not want to earn the Americans' trust.
 We do not need thed Americans' trust at all. We do not need you to 
trust us. Your trust in us has no significance for us. We and your 
people do not trust you either.
Another thing that they say is that Israel's security should be 
preserved. First of all, Israel will be more insecure on a daily basis 
whether there will be a nuclear agreement or not. You should know that 
Israel's security will not be ensured whether there will be a nuclear 
agreement or not. But because you say, "Israel's security should be 
preserved", I say in response that this is not a genuine statement 
either. For America's politicians - whether male or female - the 
security of Israel is not the main issue. The main issue is something 
else. The main issue for these lords is satisfying the Zionist 
capitalist network which has taken their lives in its hands. Their issue
 is this. Otherwise, what do they care if Israel exists or not? What 
they care about is that they have entrusted their lives to the network 
of Zionist capitalists.
These Zionist capitalists both bribe and threaten them. They bribe 
them with money and they accept it. They also bribe them with positions 
and political promotions and if the American politicians do not 
compromise with these people who pull the strings of America's economy, 
then they cannot achieve high positions such as presidency, ministerial 
positions and other such advantages. This is the main issue for them. 
The Zionist capitalists also issue threats. If they act against the 
wishes of that dangerous network, they threaten to make them resign or 
create a scandal for them. You have seen this in American life recently.
 They accuse different individuals, they create scandals for them, they 
charge them with sexual corruption, they make them resign and they 
murder them.
They have murdered some of their high-ranking and great officials. 
Their hands are open. You are afraid of this. Your considerations are 
because of this. The issue is not the security of Israel. Rather, the 
issue is your own security. They are arrogant and they speak like this. 
So, we do not get along with arrogant people. Well, if reasonable 
statements are made, we will raise no objections. We accept reasonable 
statements. We accept fair and reasonable deals, but we do not give in 
to bullying and greed. The Islamic Republic - from its lowest to its 
highest ranks - and the people of Iran will not accept this. They should
 know this.
Now, I would like to say a few things to you dear basijis and all the
 basijis of the country. I invite the dear basijis to good behavior. 
What does good behavior mean? It means patience, tolerance, resistance, 
honesty, purity, courage, sacrifice and piety. Basijis need such things 
so that this strong structure continues to prevail. If you want this 
lofty structure to stand firm against the enemies like a strong and 
well-made fort, you should observe these things. You should show 
tolerance and patience. You should behave in a good way. You should show
 purity. Take a look at great role models in the early Islamic era. We 
should avoid arrogance and conceit.
Despite his great position and courage and despite the fact that he 
was deeply respected by the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.), Malik 
al-Ashtar was walking on the streets one day. A boy did not know him and
 he began to make fun of him. Perhaps, he threw stones at him. This kid 
saw that someone is going somewhere and he began to make fun of him. 
Then, Malik al-Ashtar moved away. The people who saw this scene said to 
the boy, "Do you know what you did? Do know whom you made fun of? But 
the boy did not know him and he said, "No". They said, "He was Malik 
al-Ashtar". The boy became agitated. He rushed after him either on his 
own or with his father and friends to apologize in some way. They wanted
 to apologize so that they will not be in trouble.
They went after Malik al-Ashtar and they found him in a mosque 
praying. They moved forward and tried to apologize. Malik al-Ashtar 
said, "I have come to mosque to pray to Allah the Exalted so that He 
forgives this young person". Notice that this is forgiveness, sense of 
responsibility and tolerance. You and I should learn such things.
Moreover, I strongly advise you to preserve your piety and your 
ideological and religious beliefs. On the path of life, we slip up when 
we are faced with different temptations such as the temptation of money,
 lust, positions and friendship. You should not slip up in ideological 
areas. You should influence your environment rather than allowing it - 
if it is bad - to influence you.
All people from different social backgrounds should receive attention
 by our great, national and divine Basij. I pointed out to basijis - 
particularly Sardar Naqdi - that some people have been ignored by Basij.
 It should not be the case that you ignore some people from a specific 
social background. Besides, you should define the relationship between 
basijis from different social backgrounds. You should develop a 
relationship between them. Sometimes, student Basij is unaware of the 
activities of, say, physicians, engineers and industrialists Basij. They
 are not in touch with one another. This should not be the case. They 
should be in touch because they may prove valuable to one another. Each 
Basij organization, made up of people from different social backgrounds,
 can help other organizations to make progress. You should define these 
relationships. You should have such things in your organization.
You should ask basijis for great feats. Many of our talented people 
can accomplish great feats. Of course, the administration should help 
Basij as well. Executive organizations in different sectors should help 
Basij to achieve growth and to develop. Also, they should pay attention 
to these economic issues. As I said before, the basis of the economy of 
resistance is strengthening domestic production and reducing the imports
 which are either unnecessary or which already exist in the country. 
They can ask Basij for help on these matters. Under these favorable 
circumstances, as I have said many times, I have no doubts that - by 
Allah's favor - the future belongs to the people of Iran.
May the blessed soul of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) be happy. May the
 pure souls of our dear martyrs be happy and may God help us join those 
martyrs.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

