
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Participants of International Congress on Takfirism"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and 
greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, al-Mustafa al-Amin, upon his 
immaculate and pure household and upon his chosen companions. May 
goodness be showered upon them until the Day of Judgment.
First of all, I would like to welcome the dear guests, the honorable 
participants and you ulama who have participated in this meeting from 
different Islamic denominations. I thank you for your active and 
valuable presence in this important two-day congress.
I deem it necessary to thank the great ulama and scholars of Qom - 
particularly Hazrat Ayatollah Makarem Shirazi and Hazrat Ayatollah 
Sobhani - who put forward and implemented this idea. Thankfully, they 
prepared the ground for this task. This movement should continue. I was 
briefed on the statements of the honorable speakers who delivered 
speeches during the past two days. I too would like to raise a few 
points:
First, the purpose of this congress is attending to the issue of 
takfirism which is a harmful and dangerous orientation in the world of 
Islam. Although this takfiri orientation is not new and although it has a
 historical background, it is a few years now that it has been revived 
and strengthened with the plots of arrogance, with the money of some 
regional governments and with the schemes of the intelligence services 
of colonialist countries such as America, England and the Zionist 
regime.
The purpose of your meeting, your congress and your movement is to 
confront this orientation in a comprehensive way. The purpose is not to 
confront what is known today as DAESH. The orientation which is known as
 DAESH today is only one of the branches of the malevolent tree of 
takfirism, not the whole of it. The corruption - this act of destroying 
people and shedding the blood of innocent individuals - that this group 
of people is involved in is only part of the crimes of takfirism in the 
world of Islam. We should adopt this outlook towards the issue.
I am sorry from the bottom of my heart that today, we have to focus 
our attention on the problems that arrogance has created in the world of
 Islam. This is while we should focus all our energy on confronting the 
plots of the Zionist regime and the move that they made against Holy 
Quds and al-Aqsa Mosque. This should move and stimulate the entire world
 of Islam. However, there is no other option. In fact, attending to the 
issue of takfirism is something that has been imposed on the ulama, 
activists and scholars of the world of Islam. The enemy has brought this
 to the world of Islam as a custom-made product and problem. Therefore, 
we have to attend to it. However, the main issue is the issue of the 
Zionist regime. The main issue is the issue of Quds. The main issue is 
the issue of the first qiblah for Muslims which is al-Aqsa Mosque. These
 are the main issues.
There is an undeniable point which is the fact that the takfiri 
orientation and the governments which support and advocate it move 
completely in the direction of the goals of arrogance and Zionism. Their
 work is in line with the goals of America, the colonialist governments 
in Europe and the government of the usurping Zionist regime.
Certain signs confirm this claim. The takfiri orientation is Islamic 
on the face of it, but in practice, it is at the service of the great 
colonialist, arrogant and political orientations that are working 
against the world of Islam. There are clear signs which cannot be 
ignored. I would like to mention a few of these signs: one is that the 
takfiri orientation managed to make the movement of Islamic Awakening 
deviate from its path. The movement of Islamic Awakening was an 
anti-American and anti-arrogance movement which was against the elements
 that America had installed in the region.
It was a movement that had been launched by the masses of the people 
in different countries of North Africa. These countries were against 
arrogance and America. The takfiri orientation changed the direction of 
this anti-arrogance, anti-American and anti-tyranny movement. It turned 
it into a war between Muslims and into fratricide. The front line of 
fighting in the region was the borders of occupied Palestine, but the 
takfiri orientation came and changed this front line to the streets of 
Baghdad, the Jameh Mosque of Syria and Damascus, the streets of Pakistan
 and different cities of Syria. These places became the front line of 
fighting.
Take a look at the condition of today's Libya, Syria, Iraq, Pakistan 
and see against whom the forces and swords of Muslims are being used. 
These forces should have been used against the Zionist regime. The 
takfiri orientation changed the direction of this fighting to our homes,
 our cities and our Islamic countries. They cause explosions inside the 
Jameh Mosque of Damascus. They kill people by causing explosions in 
Baghdad while they are holding their ordinary rallies. In Pakistan, they
 fire a volley of bullets on hundreds of people. As you can witness 
today, they are creating such disastrous conditions in Libya. All of 
these are among the unforgettable and historical crimes of the takfiri 
orientation. 
It is this orientation that has brought about this situation. This 
movement is at the service of arrogance. It is at the service of America
 and England. What they do is at the service of the intelligence 
services of America and England. It is at the service of Mossad and 
other such intelligence services. 
Another sign is that those who support the takfiri orientation 
compromise with the Zionist regime so that it fights against Muslims. 
They do not even frown at the Zionist regime, but they deliver all sorts
 of blows to Islamic countries and nations and they hatch all sorts of 
plots against them.
Another sign is that the seditious movement which the takfiri 
orientation launched in Islamic countries - including Iraq, Syria, 
Libya, Lebanon and other countries - has led to the destruction of the 
valuable infrastructures of these countries. Notice how many roads, 
refineries, mines, airports, streets, cities and houses have been 
destroyed in these countries. Notice how long it takes and how much 
money is necessary for these countries to go back to their prior 
conditions. This has happened as a result of domestic wars and 
fratricide. These are the losses and the blows that the takfiri 
orientation has delivered to the world of Islam since a few years ago 
until today.
Another sign is that the takfiri orientation damaged the reputation 
of Islam in the world and it painted an ugly picture of it. Everyone in 
the world saw on TV that someone is made to sit on the ground and they 
behead them with a sword without charging him with any crime: "Allah 
forbids you not - with regard to those who fight you not for your faith 
nor drive you out of your homes - from dealing kindly and justly with 
them: for Allah loves those who are just. Allah only forbids you - with 
regard to those who fight you for your faith, and drive you out of your 
homes, and support others in driving you out - from turning to them for 
friendship and protection. And whoever makes friends with them, these 
are the unjust" [The Holy Quran, 60: 8-9].
These people did the exact opposite of this. They killed Muslims and 
innocent non-Muslims and the pictures were broadcast all over the world.
 The whole world saw this. These acts were done in the name of Islam. 
This was the way they introduced Islam, which is known for its mercy, 
reason and logic and for "Allah forbids you not - with regard to those 
who fight you not for your faith nor drive you out of your homes - from 
dealing kindly and justly with them". Is there any crime greater than 
this? Is there any fitna which is more malevolent than this? This has 
been committed by the takfiri orientation.
Another sign is that they left the axis of resistance alone. Gaza 
fought alone for 50 days. They resisted on their own for 50 days. 
Islamic governments did not help Gaza. Oil revenues and dollars were not
 put at the service of Gaza although part of them was put at the service
 of the Zionist regime. This is another sign. 
Another sin and another sign was that the takfiri orientation changed
 the direction of young Muslims' enthusiasm and valor which existed 
throughout the world of Islam. Today, youth from throughout the world of
 Islam enjoy a certain kind of enthusiasm and valor. Islamic Awakening 
has influenced them. They are prepared to move forward at the service of
 the great goals of Islam. The takfiri orientation changed the path of 
this enthusiasm and valor. It drew some ill-informed and ignorant youth 
to beheading Muslims and slaughtering women, children and infants of a 
village. These are among the sins of the takfiri orientation.
We cannot ignore and forget about these signs and proofs easily. All 
these signs show that the takfiri orientation is at the service of 
arrogance, the enemies of Islam, America, England and the Zionist 
regime. Of course, there are other signs and proofs as well. We have 
been informed that an American transport plane dropped the ammunitions 
that this group, known as DAESH, needed. This was done in order to help 
them. We said to ourselves, "Perhaps, this was a mistake". Then, we saw 
that they kept doing it. According to the reports that I have received, 
this was done five times. Do they make a mistake five times?
This is while they have formed a so-called coalition against DAESH. 
This is a downright lie. This coalition follows other malevolent goals. 
They want to keep this fitna alive, pit the two sides against one 
another and continue the domestic war between Muslims. This is their 
goal. Of course, you should know that they will not manage to do this.
There are some great duties which need to be carried out. You 
honorable gentlemen came up with some solutions and specified certain 
responsibilities in this two-day congress. I too would like to mention 
two, three tasks that cannot be ignored. One is the formation of a 
scholarly, rational and comprehensive movement by ulama from all Islamic
 denominations with the purpose of uprooting the takfiri orientation. 
This movement should not be confined to certain denominations. All the 
Islamic denominations which believe in and feel sympathetic towards 
Islam share this responsibility. A great scholarly movement should be 
launched.
They entered the arena with the false slogan of following "the 
righteous predecessors" [salafu saleh]. We should prove the righteous 
predecessors' animosity towards the things that they are doing and the 
movement that they are launching. This should be done with the language 
of religion, knowledge and reason.
You should save youth. There are some people who are influenced by 
these deviant thoughts. These poor individuals think that they are doing
 good deeds. They are the manifestation of these holy ayahs: "Say: 
'Shall we tell you of those who lose most in respect of their deeds? 
Those whose efforts have been wasted in this life, while they thought 
that they were acquiring good by their works?'" [The Holy Quran, 
103-104]. They are the manifestation of these ayahs. They vainly think 
that they are fighting in the way of God. These are the same people who 
will say to God on Judgment Day: "Our Lord, We obeyed our chiefs and our
 great ones, and they misled us as to the right path. Our Lord, give 
them double penalty and curse them with a very great curse" [The Holy 
Quran, 33: 67-68]. These are the same poor people.
Those who murder a great scholar in the Damascus Mosque are among 
these people. Those who behead Muslims with the excuse of apostasy are 
among these people. Those who shed - by causing explosions - the blood 
of innocent people in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Baghdad and in different 
cities of Iraq, Syria and Lebanon are among the same people who will say
 on Judgment Day: "Our Lord, We obeyed our chiefs and our great ones, 
and they misled us as to the right path. Our Lord, give them double 
penalty".
In another part of the Holy Quran, God says, "For each one there is 
double" [The Holy Quran, 7: 38]. Both of you leaders and followers will 
be punished. "Truly that is just and fitting: the contending one with 
another of the inmates of the fire" [The Holy Quran, 38: 64]. These 
people fight against one another on that day. Therefore, they should be 
saved. These youth should be saved and this falls on the shoulders of 
ulama because they are in contact with both intellectuals and the masses
 of the people. They should try to do this. Allah the Exalted will ask 
ulama on Judgment Day: "What did you do?" They should take action. This 
is one task.
The second task which is really urgent is illustrating the role of 
the arrogant policies of America and England. This should be illustrated
 and explained. Everyone in the world of Islam should know what the role
 of America's policies in this regard is. Everyone should know what the 
role of the intelligence services of America, England and the Zionist 
regime on this matter is. Everyone should know that they are working for
 them, that the plot has been hatched by arrogance and that these 
takfiri orientations receive support and money from them. They receive 
money by the regional puppet regimes. It is these puppet regimes which 
give them money, but the plot is hatched by arrogance and as a result, 
they ruin these poor takfiri youth. They create such a problem for the 
world of Islam. This is another necessary task that should be carried 
out. 
The third task that should definitely be carried out is attending to 
the issue of Palestine. You should not allow the issue of Palestine, 
Holy Quds and al-Aqsa Mosque to be consigned to oblivion. This is what 
they want. They want the world of Islam to ignore the issue of 
Palestine. You can see that the Zionist regime cabinet has recently 
announced that Palestine is a Jewish country. It announced that 
Palestine is a Jewish country. They have been pursuing this issue from 
long ago. Now, they are openly declaring it. By pursuing the ignorance 
of the world of Islam, the masses of the people and Muslim nations, they
 are after occupying Holy Quds and al-Aqsa Mosque, and weakening the 
Palestinians as much as they can. We should pay attention to this.
All peoples should ask their governments to pursue the issue of 
Palestine. Islamic ulama should ask their governments to pursue the 
issue of Palestine. This is an important and major responsibility. We 
thank God that in the Islamic Republic, the government and the people 
share this belief. From the beginning, the Islamic Republic government 
and our magnanimous Imam announced and raised the policy of supporting 
Palestine and showing enmity towards the Zionist regime. This policy has
 continued until today. It is 35 years now that we have not deviated 
from this line and our people too are supportive with complete 
eagerness.
Sometimes, a number of those youth whose requests are not granted in 
this regard write a letter to me and say in an insistent manner, "Allow 
us to go and fight against the Zionist regime in the front lines". Our 
people love fighting against the Zionists and the Islamic Republic has 
proved this as well. By Allah's favor and grace, we have passed through 
the barrier of denominational discord. We helped Hezbollah of Lebanon - 
which is a Shia group - in the same way that we helped Hamas and Islamic
 Jihad and we will continue to do that [audience shout "Allahu Akbar"]. 
We did not become a prisoner of denominational limits. We did not 
differentiate between Shia, Sunni, Hanafi, Hanbali, Shafi'i and Zaidi 
denominations. All Palestinian areas have to become armed.
We looked at our main goal and we offered help. We managed to 
strengthen the fists of our Palestinian brothers in Gaza and by Allah's 
favor, we will continue to do that. I announced- and this will 
definitely happen- that the West Bank should be armed like Gaza and be 
prepared for defense [audience shout "Allahu Akbar"]. 
I will tell you dear brothers that America's splendor should not 
intimidate you. The enemy has become weak. The enemy of Islam - which is
 arrogance - is weaker now compared to all other eras during the past 
100, 150 years. Take a look at colonialist governments in Europe. They 
are faced with economic, political and security problems. Today, these 
governments have all sorts of problems. America is worse than them. It 
is faced with moral, political and serious financial and monetary 
problems. It is faced with disgrace and damage to its superpower status 
everywhere in the world, not just in the world of Islam.
Besides, the Zionist regime has become weaker compared to the past. 
This is the same regime which used to chant the slogan of "from Nile to 
Euphrates". They used to shout and say openly that the region from Nile 
to Euphrates belongs to them. However, they could not conquer 
Palestinian tunnels in Gaza for 50 days. This is the same regime. They 
used all their power for 50 days so that they can sabotage, destroy and 
conquer the underground tunnels of Hamas, Islamic Jihad and the 
Palestinians, but they failed. This is the same regime which used to 
say, "The region from Nile to Euphrates belongs to us". Notice how it 
has changed. Notice how weak it has become.
The problems of the enemies of Islam are many. The enemies of Islam 
were frustrated in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon. They were frustrated in 
different areas and their goals were not achieved. As you saw, in order 
to confront the Islamic Republic on the nuclear issue, America and 
colonialist countries in Europe gathered and used all their power so 
that they could bring the Islamic Republic to its knees on this matter, 
but they failed and they will continue to fail [audience shout "Allahu 
Akbar"].
This is the weakness of the other side. But by Allah's favor, you 
will become stronger on a daily basis. The future belongs to you and 
"Allah has full power and control over His affairs" [The Holy Quran, 12:
 21] [audience shout "Allahu Akbar"].
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
