
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech at Eighth Graduation Ceremony of Army Cadets"/>
I thank Allah the Exalted for the existence of religious youth and 
the pure and virtuous soldiers who signify a bright future for the 
Islamic Republic of Iran Army and for the defense of the country.
You dear youth - whether those of you who have completed your 
education at this university and received your epaulets or those of you 
who have entered the arena of knowledge and experience and who, by 
Allah's favor, will produce many results - are my dear children and the 
dear and outstanding children of our people. I congratulate all of you 
on your achievements and I sincerely thank your commanders and the 
managers and officials who have undertaken this heavy responsibility.
Today's program was a beautiful and meaningful one. I hope that Allah
 the Exalted will keep these statements - on the basis of these slogans 
and these methods - in your hearts and souls and in your thoughts and 
actions for many years. 
In any country, the armed forces are one of the bases of power. 
Without a doubt, the military power of any country can represent the 
public and international capabilities of that country. However, the 
armed forces themselves should not look at the meaning of power in a 
shallow and superficial way. Powerful armed forces are those forces 
whose motivation, spirituality and firm determination can shape, channel
 and guide their methods, behavior and moves.
If faith, foresight, firm determination and a long-term outlook 
towards the goals of the enemy's lines do not exist, then even a large 
number of military forces and military supplies will not be decisive and
 fateful. The large number of military forces and the existence of 
advanced supplies and up-to-date education alone are not enough. They 
alone cannot make the armed forces of a country and a people the source 
of power for those people. Faith, determination, sense of responsibility
 and understanding about the truth of the responsibility of armed forces
 are necessary as well.
It is these things that can make the armed forces a source of power 
for a people in the real sense of the word. The Armed Forces of the 
Islamic Republic - including the glorious Islamic Republic of Iran Army,
 the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, Basij Force and the other 
organizations which are present in the Armed Forces - have proved their 
capabilities in the course of many years. They have shown in practice 
their spiritual and scientific capabilities, their power of innovation 
and their firm determination.
This is why the world counts on our Armed Forces and it takes them 
seriously. It knows that in the Islamic Republic of Iran our Armed 
Forces do their best in the arena of responsibility and warfare. 
You dear youth and self-sacrificing children of the Iranian nation, 
you - who have chosen this critical arena for your services - should 
prepare yourselves for the increasing progress of the Armed Forces. When
 you study, go to your classes, think, carry out research, learn 
discipline and other military skills, you should accompany them with the
 intention, thought and lofty goal of trying to be this important base 
of power for your country in the real sense of the word.
This university, which has been ornamented with the blessed name of 
the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.), has many achievements. All the 
martyrs whose enlightened pictures we witness here emerged from this 
university. They were built here and they managed to play their role 
from this university. A number of young students from this university 
were present among our soldiers and our dear martyrs.
This university is a blessed and auspicious place. This university is
 a place for building and cultivating those individuals whom the people 
of Iran are proud of and whom they consider as a source of their 
spiritual power. You should appreciate the value of this and you should 
feel proud of preparing yourselves in this center.
Today, the world of Islam or rather the entire world of humanity, 
needs your Islamic message and the message of the people of Iran. Today,
 the world is faced with many events which have taken place because of 
selfishness and greed. With the existence of new, destructive and deadly
 instruments, today the world is in the hands of those people who 
understand nothing except for their personal and collective temptations.
 They do not understand what virtue is and they know nothing about human
 values and principles.
In such a world, when Islam's liberating call is let out and when 
Islam raises its flag, its gravity attracts the world and today, Islam 
has done this. Of course, the enemies react to this so that they can 
damage the reputation of Islam. They use art, the military, politics and
 all possible tools in order to achieve this goal.
Today, one of the important and fundamental tasks which is carried 
out in well-known art and entertainment institutions in the world is 
frightening people of Islam. Why is that? If Islam had not threatened 
the interests of those who swallow the world, these reactions would not 
have been produced. When you see that they create, sculpt, arm and 
support certain groups in the name of Islam and the Islamic government 
and when you see that they use them to kill people and create insecurity
 in countries, this indicates the influence of Islam's message.
They are afraid of true and original Islam, one that your 
predecessors introduced and showed to the world in the arenas of battle,
 politics and the Revolution. As these dear youth pointed out, today you
 are the inheritors of those great martyrs and those magnificent men.
Islam's message for humanity is the message of tranquility, dignity, 
honor and a secure life. The enemies do not want this message to be 
introduced in the world. They do not want nations to become familiar 
with it. 
My dear ones, study well and learn military skills and rules in a 
complete way. You should accompany military skills with Islamic rules 
and principles. You should engage in innovation. As our researchers and 
our young scientists present new scientific achievements in different 
arenas, you too should create military achievements, engage in military 
organization and introduce those new phenomena that can help a military 
organization to reach its peak. You should promote this among 
yourselves.
I ask Allah the Exalted to bestow success on you. By Allah's favor, 
you dear youth will witness a better, brighter and more glorious future 
in this country. I hope that you will fully participate in creating that
 bright future.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

