
<meta year="2014" title="Leader Interview Before Being Discharged from Hospital"/>
 Salamun alaykum
 Salamun alaykum and wa rahmatullah
 Hazrat-e Agha, I would like to express my respects.
 Thank you.
 Thank God you are leaving hospital after a week 
since the operation. Our enthusiastic people and enthusiastic Muslim 
people throughout the world would like to hear about your condition and 
the last moments that you are in hospital.
 In the Name of Allah, the Beneficent, the 
Merciful. Thankfully, the operation and the following procedures were 
conducted in the best possible way. Now, I am going home with complete 
health. My body is healthy, but my heart and my soul feel a heavy burden
 because of the considerable amount of kindness and sympathy that was 
shown to me during this time.
I really feel a heavy burden on my shoulders because of the all the 
kindness that people from different social backgrounds showed me. There 
was not a day when hundreds and thousands of kind and sympathetic 
messages from people were not showered on the heart and soul of this 
humble person like the life-giving drops of rain that breathe new life 
into the heart of a dead person or an infertile piece of land. 
These messages were delivered by the honorable ulama, maraaje, 
outstanding personalities, the outstanding managers of the country and 
people from different social backgrounds. I have been shown such 
kindness and sympathy that I really feel humbled in the face of all this
 kindness to me. As well as the people of our country, we witnessed this
 from other peoples as well.
I have always stressed that the people of Iran have a strategic depth
 which is particular to them. We know of no other country and government
 that enjoys such roots of kindness and affection and such ideological 
and religious bonds outside its borders. We enjoy such roots and such 
bonds. In any case, I am physically healthy and, thankfully, I am in 
good spirits as well but I am humbled at all this kindness and sympathy 
that was shown to me during the past week by different sides and groups 
including politicians, guilds, people from different social backgrounds,
 artists and athletes.
Some of the messages that they delivered were broadcast on TV and 
some others were not broadcast. A number of them showed their sympathy 
and kindness by writing to me or by delivering messages through 
electronic media. I hope that Allah the Exalted will reward all of them.
As for the issue of the medical process, one point is that I would 
like to thank the physicians and those who were involved in the medical 
process. Well, this is a clear and definite duty. They really carried 
out the task in a perfect way. However, what is more important than this
 word of thanks is that I am really proud of our physicians. I am proud 
that our dear Iran is at this level of medical capability.
It is necessary for our people to really feel proud of this large 
number of physicians - including surgeons, internists, all those who 
people who offer medical services and nurses. Thankfully, we have this 
great source of wealth: this great source of human wealth in one of the 
most fundamental and vital areas of the life of a society and 
individuals which is the area of health.
I see how dutiful, knowledgeable and skilled these people are. Of 
course, I knew this before. That is to say, I have always had such an 
outlook towards our medical society. But when one is treated by these 
physicians, one's information about them becomes certainty. When we are 
treated by these people, we tangibly feel that we have a great source of
 wealth comprised of our dear physicians. And I hope that Allah the 
Exalted will reward all of them.
Of course, as I said, our appreciation for them cannot be expressed 
with these few words of thanks. I told Dr. Marandi - he took the trouble
 and accepted the responsibility of leading the medical team - that he 
should thank them on my part with whatever ways and words he knows.
I would like to raise a point which is not related to the issue of 
hospitalization and my health condition. During the past two, three 
days, I had a source of entertainment which was listening to the 
statements of the Americans on the issue of DAESH [ISIS] and fighting 
against it. They made absurd, hollow and biased statements. One of the 
issues which was really a source of amusement for me was that the 
American secretary of state and the girl who stands there and talks, 
openly said, "We will not invite Iran to the coalition against DAESH". 
First, what honor is greater than the fact that America is disappointed 
with us and does not want us to participate in a wrong collective task. 
This is a source of pride for us, not a source of regret.
Second, I witnessed that all of them are lying. Since the first days 
that the issue of DAESH arose, the Americans asked our ambassador in 
Iraq - through their ambassador - to organize a meeting and reach an 
agreement on the issue of DAESH. Our ambassador relayed this inside the 
country and some of our officials were not against it. But I was against
 it and said, "On this issue, we will not cooperate with America 
particularly because their hands are dirty. How can we cooperate on this
 issue with those whose hands and intentions are dirty?"
Later on, the same secretary of state - who had said in front of the 
camera and in front of the eyes of all the world that they do not want 
Iran to cooperate with them - requested Dr. Zarif that Iran cooperate 
with them on this issue, but Dr. Zarif turned this down. The secretary 
of states' deputy too - the woman whom you know - had requested Mr. 
Araghchi that Iran cooperate with them. Both Dr. Zarif and Mr. Araghchi 
turned down their requests. After they turned down their requests and 
after we openly said that we will not cooperate with them, they said, 
"We do not want to involve Iran".
Earlier they formed a so-called global coalition against Syria with 
great fuss and uproar. They gathered 30, 40, 50 countries, but they 
could not do a damn thing against Syria. The same is true of Iraq. They 
do not intend to take serious action there either. The action that was 
taken against DAESH and that broke its back was not taken by the 
Americans. They themselves and DAESH militants too know this very well. 
The people of Iraq too know this very well.
The Americans know that it was the people of Iraq, the Iraqi Armed 
Forces and the popular forces who perfectly understood how to fight 
against DAESH. They have fought it and they have dealt serious blows to 
it so far. From now on too, they will continue to deal such blows. They 
will see this.
With this move, America wants to find an excuse to do the same thing 
to Iraq and Syria that it is doing to Pakistan. They enter Pakistan 
without any permission despite the existence of a well-established 
government and a strong army - the Pakistani army is a strong army - and
 they bomb wherever they want. If they do this, they will be faced with 
the same problems that they were faced with in Iraq for the last 10 
years.
The point is that hearing these statements in my hospital bed was a source of entertainment.
 Thank you very much. The hearts of millions of pure individuals are behind you and their prayers will always be with you.
 Thank You.
 We ask for your prayer for us.
 God willing you will be successful. 
