
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Hajj Officials"/>
I would like to congratulate all you dear brothers and sisters - who have participated in this meeting - all the dear people of Iran and all believers and Muslims throughout the world on the occasion of the auspicious birthday anniversary of Hazrat Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha Thamen ul-Hujjaj (God's greetings be upon him).
Although the blessed lives of the Imams (a.s.) during the 250 years of their Imamate contain many outstanding and prominent points each of which requires careful analysis, attention, tafsir and reconsideration, the era of the eighth Imam (God's greetings be upon him) is one of the best eras in this regard.
The beginning of the eighth Imam's (God's greetings be upon him) Imamate coincided with the dictatorial rule of Harun al-Rashid. This happened after the martyrdom of Musa ibn Ja'far (a.s.) in prison. Anyone who showed the slightest disobedience to the wishes of the ruling system faced unrelenting pressures. It was in such circumstances that the eighth Imam (a.s.) achieved Imamate.
There is a narration which says, "One of the followers of the Imams (a.s.) said, 'This young person, the son of Musa ibn Ja'far, has accepted this responsibility. This is while blood trickles from Harun's sword'" [al-Kafi, Volume 8, page 257]. This narration says, "Blood trickles from Harun's sword". It was in such circumstances that Imam Ridha (a.s.) became an Imam. In such difficult circumstances, this great personality managed to develop among the Muslim society of those days the bright line of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) tradition and Quranic and Islamic teachings.
He managed to help hearts get close to the school of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household. Then it was Ma'mun's turn and the story of his attempt to bring that great personality from Madina to Marv and Khorasan. At that time, Marv was the capital of Abbasid rule. They had changed the capital from Baghdad to Marv. Of course, later on, they made Baghdad the capital again. Baghdad was the center of Abbasid policy. The motivation behind the decision of Ma'mun and his ruling system to transfer the eighth Imam (a.s.) to Marv requires a long discussion.
Ma'mun had made a calculation which was purely political. His policy was to strengthen the bases of his power and to weaken the movement of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household (God's greetings be upon them) and what they wanted to do. In the face of Mamun's political and shrewd move, the eighth Imam (a.s.) drew up and implemented a divinely intelligent plan. This plan not only foiled the plot and requests of the ruling system but it also led to the development of Quranic teachings and the ideas and thoughts of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household throughout the world of Islam.
With a great movement, with reliance on Allah the Exalted, with divine wisdom and acumen and with an efficient and wilayati outlook, the eighth Imam (God's greetings be upon him) managed to foil this hostile plot of the dictatorial and oppressive ruling system and to use it to the advantage of the truth. This is an outstanding chapter of the history of the Imams (a.s.). 
The presence of Imam Ridha's (a.s.) holy shrine in this part of our great Islamic country has brought about many blessings. Thanks to this holy shrine and this haram of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household in Khorasan, certain relationships have been established among Muslims all over the world - those, from all Islamic denominations and groups, whose hearts beat with the love of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household.
I hope that by Allah's favor, the blessings of the presence of this holy shrine - which is the center of our attention to the spiritual qualities of this pure and holy household - increase on a daily basis. This is the shrine of Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha (God's greetings be upon him). It is the place for the tawaf of divine angels. It is the place for the presence of divine blessings. In that place, pure and enthusiastic hearts and those who have entrusted their hearts to this pure household speak to Allah the Exalted with their enthusiastic hearts.
The holy shrine of the eighth Imam (thousands of greetings and praise be upon him) is the center of dhikr, attention and monotheism. I hope that all of us, all the people of Iran and all Muslims all over the world benefit from the blessings of the attention of this great personality and I hope that it will strengthen the relationships of Muslims with one another. 
The issue of Hajj is an important issue. Apart from the spiritual blessings and the constructive role of Hajj, this spiritual trip is an opportunity like many other great opportunities. A people should prove their vigilance by making maximum use of opportunities. Hajj is an opportunity. The Islamic government, Islamic society and Muslim peoples should appreciate the value of this opportunity.
On the one hand, this opportunity can be used for improving and correcting people's religious and spiritual affairs, for enlightening our ignorant hearts and for drawing the attention of Islamic society to divine blessings and on the other hand, it can be used for correcting many important affairs of the Islamic Ummah. The spirituality of Hajj should be benefitted from. More than anywhere else, the opportunity to establish a close relationship with Allah the Exalted, to engage in divine dhikr and to develop a sense of presence before God exists in Hajj rituals.
When we visit the Two Holy Mosques, Mina, Arafat and Mash'ar, when we engage in dhikr, when we put on ihram and when we feel that we are responding to the divine invitation, this is a great opportunity. It is a great opportunity for wise and vigilant hearts to strengthen their relationship with Allah the Exalted. We should familiarize our hearts with God. This is a very important opportunity.
Of course, officials in charge of hajj affairs, the honorable clergy who are present in caravans, heads of caravans, servants in the Hajj Organization and those who serve as leaders have heavier responsibilities. You are the servants of God's guests. Your responsibilities are heavy ones.
These responsibilities are not limited to hajj rituals. When hajj rituals are over or during the time between Umrah and Hajj rituals - when the honorable hajj pilgrims have some time off - your advice and your attention to all hajj pilgrims is a necessary task. During this gap - between going to and returning from Holy Makka and performing hajj rituals - the honorable officials in charge of hajj affairs should have a sense of responsibility towards meeting the material needs of hajj pilgrims and more important than that, towards meeting their spiritual needs.
You should attract their attention and develop in them the spirit of humility, supplication and avoiding material pleasures. In our daily lives, we are busy with certain distractions. These distractions divert our attention during the hajj season. We should avoid these distractions and we should focus on dhikr and supplication. This is how a hajj pilgrim feels a genuine change in himself after this trip. During hajj pilgrimage, many people change the wrong path that they used to take in the past. Thanks to hajj pilgrimage, they return to the right path which is the path of worship and obeying the truth. 
You have heavy responsibilities towards the general issues of the world of Islam and the Islamic Ummah as well. Today, the world of Islam is going through a sensitive time. It cannot be said that it is more difficult than previous eras in history. In the past, the world of Islam and Islamic nations experienced difficult times, they passed difficult tests and they had many problems. Today, the world of Islam is in a critical situation. However we can witness a bright future amid these difficulties. This future should be seen and dangers should be identified. Promoters, activists, language experts and ordinary hajj pilgrims should do their best to solve the problems of the world of Islam. This should be done by holding discussions and organizing meetings and with exchange of opinions and information.
Today, one of the most important methods of the enemies of the Islamic Ummah is creating discord. They create discord. If someone accepts that the Islamic movement and Awakening threatens the interests of great powers, they can naturally understand that these great powers focus all their efforts on creating discord among Muslims, keeping them busy with trivial things, pitting them against one another and preventing them from thinking. This is what they are doing with all their power.
They provoke the elements of discord between Islamic denominations -between Shia and Sunni in particular - as much as they can. They want to fill hearts with grudge and suspicion. This is what the hands of colonialism are doing in the present time. Unfortunately, some people from among us Muslims - whether Shia or Sunni - are helping them. They are ignorant. They do not know that what they are doing in the area of creating grudges and enmity and showing hostility and opposition is at the service of the interests of great powers. They do not understand this.
During hajj pilgrimage, you should do your best to decrease this lack of understanding and the fake grudges that the enemies of Islam and the Islamic Ummah are injecting into Muslims. You should decrease it. Today, the great interest of the world of Islam lies in solidarity among Muslim brothers. Muslim brothers have certain common points. Muslims have many common points, but the enemy wants to deny them.
Today, in some parts of the world of Islam, there is certain propaganda against Shia which is focused on removing these common points. They promote the idea that the opinion of Shia towards the Holy Quran is different from Muslims' opinion. They promote the idea that its opinion towards the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) is different from that of Muslims. They are promoting these ideas and they are spending money on it. They slander their Muslim brothers to the advantage of arrogant organizations, America, Zionism and the enemies of the Islamic Ummah.
You should do your best to dispel this lack of understanding and these suspicions and lies. The gathering of Muslims in hajj is a great opportunity. Therefore, this opportunity should not be missed. The best way this opportunity can be used is to make Muslims get close to one another. Everyone should participate in different ceremonies together with others. Everyone should participate in spiritual ceremonies and daily prayers together with others. All Muslims should prostrate themselves before Allah the Exalted together. All Muslims should worship God before His house together. You should take away the enemy's plot.
Today, you can see that takfirism is an element for the enemies of Islam and the enemies of the Islamic Ummah. They say takfiri things not only against Shia Muslims but also against Sunni Muslims. They explode the mosques of Sunni Muslims to the advantage of the Zionist regime. They do this to pit people and Muslims against one another so that they ignore the important issue of Palestine and the presence of the enemy in the heart of the world of Islam. These are their goals and some people follow them whether knowingly or unknowingly. We should pay attention to this.
One of the issues that should receive attention in hajj is the issue of Palestine. The issue of Palestine is the first issue of the world of Islam. Fortunately, on the issue of Palestine, Muslims have gradually gained the upper hand. You should take a look at the events of the 50-day war in Gaza and see how a limited number of poor Palestinians - who did not have powerful weapons, enough resources and means of communication - managed to defeat the Zionist regime which is the symbol of western power in the region. Notice how they managed to impose their requests on them and how they frustrated their effort to attack Gaza.
This shows that we are strong from the inside. We have many capabilities, we can challenge every enemy and we can defend ourselves. We should not underestimate our power. The power of Islam, the power of the Holy Quran, the power of faith and the power of the Islamic Ummah is a great power. This power should not be underestimated because it can resist oppression. We do not intend to dominate the world. Rather, we intend to condemn and resist the oppression of arrogant governments which bully Muslim nations. We intend to resist this oppression and we can do this.
Each and every one of those people who are involved in hajj - this great opportunity - can play their part. Each of you can play a role and exert influence. Seminarians, physicians, managers in charge of hajj caravans and ordinary hajj pilgrims can play a role in different ways. They should consider this to be an opportunity and they should benefit from it.
Fortunately, hajj affairs are significantly different from what they were in the past. Good tasks have been carried out whether in terms of material services or in terms of spiritual, intellectual and promotional services. However, we should not be satisfied with this level of achievement. We should make progress because there are many gaps. There are many tasks that can be carried out. There are many opportunities ahead of us which should be benefitted from.
All Muslim brothers from different areas and with different denominations should cooperate with one another. The solidarity between Shia and Sunni Muslims in Iran can be a model for the entire world of Islam. Thankfully today, Shia and Sunni brothers inside the country are carrying out great tasks together and in collaboration with one another. One of these tasks is the issue of hajj. Very important tasks are being carried out with everyone's help and with the cooperation of all the people of Iran.
This can be a model for the world of Islam. I hope that Allah the Exalted increases - on a daily basis - His blessings and supports to the Islamic Ummah and well-intentioned personalities in the world of Islam. I hope that He will approve of your hajj. By Allah's favor, you will return from this trip with great results. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
