
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Sermons at Eid ul-Fitr Prayers"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. "All Praise is 
due to Allah, Who created the heavens and the earth, and made the 
darkness and the light. Yet those who reject faith hold others as equal,
 with their Guardian-Lord" [The Holy Quran, 6: 1]. And peace and 
greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, the friend of our hearts and 
the interceder with our sins, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa Muhammad, upon his
 immaculate, pure and chosen household, and upon those who guide the 
guided. All praise is due to Allah, from Whom I seek help, to Whom I 
repent and Whom I rely on.
I would like to tell all you dear brothers and sisters about divine 
mercy and forgiveness on this holy and auspicious day and I congratulate
 you on Eid ul-Fitr. I hope that God bestows His blessings on you and 
accepts your good deeds and your jihad of worship - those you fulfilled 
on the warm days and in the blessed nights of the auspicious month of 
Ramadan. 
Thankfully, our people benefitted from the auspicious month of Raman.
 They benefitted from Quranic, dua and dhikr meetings, from iftar meals,
 from the enthusiastic Nights of Qadr and from the different prayers and
 supplications that were thankfully said throughout our Islamic country.
 These prayers, supplications and the like prepare the ground for divine
 mercy and they are a source of divine blessings.
Moreover, at the end of the month, the great movement of the people 
of Iran was launched on Quds Day. This movement announced to the world 
the lively, vigilant and loud cry of our people. These were the events 
of this great month out of which our people emerged glorious and finally
 they reached Eid ul-Fitr.
Dear brothers and sisters, each religious practice that you did in 
the month of Ramadan was a good deed and a piece of paradise. When you 
ask Allah the Exalted - in a prayer of the auspicious month of Ramadan -
 to help you achieve paradise, this means that you want to achieve the 
practices whose manifestation is divine paradise, as promised by God. 
And thankfully this happened. You should appreciate the value of what 
you achieved in the month of Ramadan and you should preserve it.
In the month of Ramadan, what we witnessed in personal, public, 
popular and social practices was that the people organized public and 
simple iftar meals. Thankfully, this has become common. Last year, our 
dear people were asked to organize iftar meals in a less extravagant way
 and to increase the number of those people who benefit from these 
meals. This year, the news that we received showed that the people made 
an effort and developed this in public and holy centers, on the streets,
 in hussainiyahs and in each and every part of the country. The piece of
 advice that this humble person wants to offer is that you should 
promote and develop such practices as much as you can because it 
influences our Islamic lifestyle.
Quds Day was really and truly a great day. While the weather was very
 hot and our people were fasting, men and women - particularly those 
women wearing hijab and who had their children in their arms - 
participated in the rallies. When a people want to show that they are 
alive and when they want to show their communal determination, they show
 it on such occasions.
This communal determination is not particular to a specific group of 
people. Rather, it involves all individuals. Our dear people thankfully 
showed this communal determination. I hope that God bestows His 
blessings on you dear people. I hope that He increases your dignity and 
achievements on a daily basis and I hope that He bestows upon the 
officials of the country the blessing to render services to you on a 
daily basis.
"
Say: He, Allah, is One.
Allah is He on Whom all depend.
He begets not, nor is He begotten.
And none is like Him." [The Holy Quran, 112]
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and 
greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa 
Muhammad and upon his immaculate, pure and chosen household, especially 
the one remaining with Allah on earth. And greetings be upon the 
Commander of the Faithful, Siddiqat at-Tahirah, the mistress of all 
women, Hassan, Hussein - the children of mercy and the Imams of guidance
 - Ali ibn al-Hussein, Muhammad ibn Ali, Ja'far ibn Muhammad, Musa ibn 
Ja'far, Ali ibn Musa, Muhammad ibn Ali, Ali ibn Muhammad, Hassan ibn Ali
 and Hujjat al-Qaem.
I advise the dear brothers and sisters - who say prayers - all the 
people of Iran and myself to observe divine piety. This piety is a 
source of influence in all areas including the area of making judgments 
and taking action on all important social and international issues and 
issues related to the world of Islam and humanity.
Today, the first issue of the world of Islam is the issue of Gaza. 
Perhaps, it can be said that this issue is the first issue of humanity. A
 rabid dog and a marauding wolf has attacked innocent people. Who is 
more innocent than the innocent children who lost their lives in an 
oppressive way during these attacks? Who is more innocent than the 
mothers who held their children in their arms and who witnessed their 
death and pains? Today, the usurping and kafer Zionist regime has 
committed these crimes in front of the eyes of all human beings. 
Therefore, humanity should react.
Three points need to be said about the issue of Gaza: The first point
 is that what the leaders of the Zionist regime are doing today is 
genocide and a great historical catastrophe. The perpetrators and 
supporters of these crimes should be put on trial and punished on an 
international level. Their punishment is what people's representatives 
and righteous and sympathetic personalities in the world should request.
And they should not escape punishment with the passage of time. They 
should be punished, whether they are in power or when they lose their 
power and are overthrown. Both the perpetrators of these crimes and 
those who are openly supporting them - you have heard and seen the news 
about their support - should be punished. This was the first point.
The second point is that we should see the power of endurance and 
resistance of a people who have stood up for their legitimate claims. 
They are a people who have been surrounded by all sides and who live in a
 small and confined area. The sea is closed to them, the land is closed 
to them and all borders are closed to them. Their drinking water, their 
electricity and their basic amenities are not usable. All these 
disasters have befallen them because of the enmity and invasion of the 
enemy and there is no one to help them.
All these disasters have befallen them because of the enmity and 
invasion of the enemy and there is no one to help them. These people are
 faced with an armed, malevolent and merciless regime such as the 
Zionist regime and its evil, malevolent and najis leaders who are 
striking them day and night without any consideration. Despite such 
crimes, these people have stood firm and they are resisting. This is a 
lesson. This shows that one's power of resistance - the power of 
resistance of a mother who sees her child dead in front of her and the 
power of resistance of a woman who sees her husband, brother and father 
under pressure - is beyond what we can imagine in our minds.
We should know our inner power. Human beings can be powerful and show
 resistance like this. These people - whose population is about 
1,800,000 persons - are standing firm despite the fact that they live in
 an enclosed and surrounded land that is about 400, 500 square 
kilometers. They are standing firm despite the fact that their gardens, 
shops and houses are the target of the enemy's attack. Besides, the path
 of business and finance is closed to them and they are under such 
attack.
This shows the level and amount of a people's resistance. And I will 
tell you that by Allah's favor and permission, these people will finally
 achieve victory over the enemy. Of course, even in the present time, 
the transgressing enemy is regretful like a dog which has done something
 wrong. He has gotten stuck and he does not know what to do. If he turns
 back, he will be disgraced. If he continues, it will be more difficult 
for him on a daily basis.
That is why you see that America, Europe and all global criminals 
have joined hands to force an imposed truce on the people of Gaza. They 
want to do this in order to save the Zionist regime. The Zionist regime 
has gotten stuck and it will continue to get stuck from now on. This was
 the second point.
And the third point is that the political leaders of arrogance say, 
"We should disarm Hamas and Jihad". What does it mean to disarm these 
groups? It means that these groups have a number of missiles with which 
they can somehow defend themselves in the face of the incessant attacks 
of the enemy. They say, "We should even take away these few missiles 
from them". From their viewpoint, Palestine - including Gaza - should be
 in such a condition that the enemy can attack and fire on it whenever 
it wants. And Palestine should not be able to defend itself at all. This
 is what they want.
The President of America has issued a "fatwa" saying that the 
resistance should be disarmed. Of course, it is clear that you want it 
to be disarmed so that it cannot deliver any blow against these crimes. 
But we say that the opposite should happen. The entire world - 
particularly the world of Islam - should provide the people of Palestine
 with as many weapons as they can.
God, help Islam and the Muslims. Help the armies of the Muslims. 
Abandon the kufar, the enemies and the hypocrites. And I ask Allah for 
forgiveness for myself and you.
"
Say: He, Allah, is One.
Allah is He on Whom all depend.
He begets not, nor is He begotten.
And none is like Him." [The Holy Quran, 112]
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
