
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Address to Army Commanders"/>
I would like to express my warm welcome to you, the dear brothers. I would also like to congratulate every serviceman in the Army of the Islamic Republic, especially those who have played a major part over the past decades in the formation and development of our honorable army, on the occasion of the Army Day. 
The reality on the ground indicates that the Army of the Islamic Republic is quite distinguished among other armies in the world. However, this does not mean that our army is equipped with ultramodern weapons or the most sophisticated military equipment. Indeed, even ultramodern weapons by themselves are not enough, since these weapons in the hands of incompetent soldiers may even cause their own destruction.
Therefore, the real criteria for evaluating the power and worth of an army are knowledge, expertise, faith and morale of its personnel and their adherence to spiritual and moral values. 
Today, it is possible to prevent many armies and nations in the world from having modern weapons, but it is not possible to prevent them from attaining high moral and spiritual levels or bar them from advancing and making progress in the scientific and technological areas.
In fact, the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic, including the army and the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps, have been moving in this direction and increasing their knowledge and expertise ever since their formation. The Iranian nation witnessed the achievements of our armed forces and the results of their endeavors during the period of sacred defense against the Iraqi aggression. This great success stemmed from the faith, virtues and strong resolve of our committed servicemen.
Most of you, who were soldiers at the time of the Iraqi imposed war, know very well that the eight-year war was not only a war between two countries, but that it was a war waged by a coalition made up of many countries on the Islamic Republic.
This war was aimed at exerting maximum military, political and economic pressure on the Iranian people in order to stop them from treading their revolutionary path. But those behind this war failed to achieve their goal.
The coalition, which helped and supported the Iraqi regime in every possible way in its military aggression against our country, comprised both the Western bloc and NATO and the Eastern bloc, including the former Soviet Union. These countries provided the Iraqi regime with arms and military equipment as well as with military intelligence.
On the other hand, we did not have even enough simple weapons such as rocket-propelled grenades, rifles, or cannon and mortar shells.
Despite the fact that those states in the Eastern bloc that sold arms were mostly poor countries, they refused to sell even simple weapons and military equipment to the Islamic Republic. I remember that once we needed barbed wire, and we purchased it from abroad. The cargo had to pass through one of the Eastern bloc countries in order to reach Iran, but that country did not issue permission for the transit of this cargo!
Therefore, while the Iraqi regime was being provided with all kinds of weapons and military equipment, immense pressure was being exerted on the Islamic Republic by this coalition.
Nevertheless, in spite of all the pressures and sanctions, our armed forces, which enjoyed strong popular support, put up a brave resistance and foiled the Iraqi aggressors and their supporters in their evil objectives.
Our committed and faithful armed forces safeguarded our borders and did not allow the enemies to annex even a single inch of our territories. Besides, they dealt such a heavy blow to the Iraqi aggressors that they surprised the whole world.
Thus, it is clear that when the armed forces of a country are infused with spirituality and virtues, they will be able to accomplish great and heroic deeds.
In general, when someone has faith, self-confidence, trust in Almighty Allah and belief in his own abilities, his capabilities will begin to develop, and he will be able to realize his full potential.
However, when the military forces of a country are devoid of such qualities, they will act in the way that the Iraqi forces did during the recent U.S. military attack on their country! The Iraqi military personnel lacked faith. Therefore, they did not defend their country in the way they should have done.
Besides, the Iraqi military force known as the Republican Guard brought even more shame and disgrace on the Iraqi regime by putting up no resistance and by not defending the capital, which it was expected to protect. 
The point is not whether the Iraqi forces could have won a victory, although I believe that if they had put up a proper resistance, they could have stopped the advance of the aggressors and ultimately forced them to retreat. But the point is that allowing a city to fall to the enemies without any resistance will bring eternal disgrace on the military forces that are tasked to defend it.
The military forces of the Islamic Republic should be grateful to Almighty Allah for the great popular support that they enjoy. They should highly value this support and be proud of our devoted and honorable nation.
The Iranian people's support for their military forces is, as far as I know, unique in the world, and this is mostly due to our servicemen's adherence to moral and spiritual values. Thus, the Iranian people should also be proud of their military forces, including the army, the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps and the Basijis.
In conclusion, I would like to once again pay tribute to the immaculate souls of our esteemed martyrs, and I pray to Almighty Allah to confer His grace and favor on those who struggled in His way and achieved martyrdom or suffered disabilities.
I also pray to Almighty Allah to assist the Iranian people, especially our dear youngsters who are a valuable asset to our great nation, in making more progress and in accomplishing their lofty ideals and objectives.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings 
