
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Government Officials"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and 
greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Muhammad, and upon his 
immaculate household
First of all, I would like to welcome each and every one of you 
brothers and sisters and the dear and committed officials of the Islamic
 Republic. It is a very good meeting and by Allah's favor, it will be 
full of divine blessings and guidance and the light of this month. The 
statements of Mr. President were good and complete statements. I hope 
that by the blessedness of this month and the pure prayers of righteous 
people, believers and those who fast, what the officials of the country 
intend to do will produce the desired results. 
The month of Ramadan has been described as "auspicious". The reason 
why this month is auspicious is that it is a way to liberate oneself 
from the fire of hell and to achieve paradise. As we read in the prayers
 of the month of Ramadan, "This is the month of liberation from hell and
 achieving paradise" [Iqbal al-A'mal, Volume 1, page 90]. Divine 
paradise and the fire of divine hell exist in this world as well. What 
happens in the hereafter is the manifestation of this world: "Indeed, 
hell surrounds the unbelievers on all sides" [The Holy Quran, 9: 49]. 
Hell has surrounded unbelievers, oppressors, enemies and opponents, in 
this world and in this life. The same is true of paradise. 
It is in our own hands to go from hell to paradise. This happens in 
this world and its concrete, hidden and real manifestation will be 
witnessed in the hereafter. We can take this trip and this path from the
 hell of misconduct, misgivings and doubts - which belongs to this world
 - to the paradise of good deeds, good thoughts, good behavior and good 
conduct. This path and movement is called "penitence" and "repentance". 
It has been said in a prayer that "[T]his is the month of penitence and 
this is the month of repentance" [Iqbal al-A'mal, Volume 1, page 25]. It
 is with penitence and repentance that one is liberated from hell and 
that one achieves paradise.
One of the blessings of the auspicious month of Ramadan is the 
prayers of this month. These prayers teach us how to speak to God, how 
to ask Him for help and how to pay attention to Him. Moreover, they 
teach us many lessons for which we cannot find an equal even in common 
moral narrations. I have chosen two prayers from this month which I 
would like to narrate in the beginning of my speech. The selection of 
these two prayers is because of our needs today.
Today, we - as officials of our dear country and the Islamic Republic
 - urgently need serious and diligent work which is accompanied by 
purity and sincerity. These two prayers help us move toward this path. 
One prayer is the prayer of the first day of the auspicious month of 
Ramadan. I have chosen this part from this prayer: "Oh God, place us 
among those who do something while they have willed it. Do not place us 
among those poor people who suffer from indolence and among those who 
rely on things other than action" [Iqbal al-A'mal, Volume 1, page 23].
The first sentence says, "Oh God, place us among those who do 
something while they have willed it". This action should be purposeful, 
one that enjoys intention and one that is clear in advance where it is 
leading to. The second sentence is "Do not place us among those poor 
people who suffer from indolence". "Kisalat" means laziness and 
idleness. It says, "God, do not place us among these people". This is 
what the prayer teaches us. The third sentence is: "And among those who 
rely on things other than action".
It says, "Do not place us among those who day dream, rant and 
fabricate issues in a meeting without taking any action". Notice that 
this is the lesson of this prayer. In the first day of the month of 
Ramadan, believers enter the divine feast with this spirit. This is one 
of the great servings of this feast. This is one prayer.
The second prayer is one that is said on each day of this auspicious 
month. It says, "And save me from drowsiness, laziness, exhaustion, 
carelessness, inflexibility, ignorance and deception" [Iqbal al-A'mal, 
Volume 1, page 26]. It asks God to save us from these characteristics: 
the first is drowsiness. The second is laziness. The third is 
exhaustion. It means getting sick and tired of something. The next one 
is carelessness. It means doing things in a careless way and ignoring 
precision. The next one is hardness of heart, fossilization and 
inflexibility. The next one is ignorance and confusion about our 
position and about what is happening and what is ahead of us. And the 
last one is deception and arrogance.
It asks God to save us from these characteristics. Notice what 
lessons these prayers are. Well, the function of these concepts - which 
are lofty and outstanding concepts - is much more important for 
officials in charge of public affairs than for ordinary individuals. 
When we say, "Oh God, do not make us suffer from laziness, inflexibility
 and ignorance", we are making this request from two perspectives: one 
is from a personal perspective. We make this personal request so that we
 do not make a mistake and so that we do not face problems. 
Another is from the perspective of our responsibilities. You are like
 a captain who is steering a ship. You are like a pilot who is flying a 
plane. The issue is not only the issue of your lives. You are different 
from a person who is driving his car on a road alone. His responsibility
 is to protect his own life. But you are not like him. A group of people
 are with you. These are the things that make your responsibilities and 
commitment - on the issues that were discussed - heavier. 
In our religious literature, the month of Ramadan is the month of 
confronting shaitan and satanic behavior on the one hand and behaving in
 a kind way, obeying God and worshiping Him on the other hand. On the 
one hand, it is said that shaitan is tethered in the month of Ramadan 
and on the other hand, it is said that the month of Ramadan is the month
 of obeying and worshiping God. The shortest and most meaningful word to
 describe this month is the word "piety": "Fasting is prescribed to you 
as it was prescribed to those before you, that you may show piety" [The 
Holy Quran, 2: 183]. 
The issue is the issue of confrontation between shaitan and piety. 
Shaitan's job is to tempt. What does tempting mean? It means creating 
disruption in your calculation system. This is shaitan. The opposite 
point is piety's role. Shaitan's effort is to tempt you. That is to say,
 he tries to make our minds, our nature and our calculation system - 
which has been installed inside man - stop working. He wants to make us 
make a mistake in calculation. 
Piety's job is the opposite of this: "If you fear Allah, He will 
grant you a criterion to judge between right and wrong" [The Holy Quran,
 8: 29]. Piety gives you a criterion. That is to say, it gives you the 
awareness to separate truth from falsehood. In another holy ayah, God 
says, "So, fear Allah for it is God that teaches you" [The Holy Quran, 
2: 282]. With piety, Allah the Exalted opens the gates of knowledge, 
awareness and wisdom to you.
Shaitan influences our calculation system with threats and 
temptations. On the one hand, he frightens us. A holy ayah from Sura 
Aal-e Imran says, "It is only shaitan that suggests to you the fear of 
his disciples: Be not afraid of them, but fear Me if you have faith" 
[The Holy Quran, 3: 175]. On the issue of the battle that happened after
 the Battle of Uhud - there was a rumor saying that the enemy is coming 
to destroy Muslims and that Muslims are going to lose everything - the 
Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) said, "Those of you who became wounded in the 
Battle of Uhud today should carry their swords and accompany me. If none
 of you comes, I will go alone". 
The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) set out to go. Those who had been wounded 
in Uhud on that day took their swords and accompanied the Holy Prophet 
(s.w.a.). With a surprise attack, they went and destroyed the enemy who 
had lain in ambush near Madina, who had started these rumors and who had
 decided to attack. And then they returned: "And they returned with 
grace and bounty from Allah and no harm ever touched them" [The Holy 
Quran, 3: 174]. Then the Holy Quran says, "It is only shaitan that 
suggests to you the fear of his disciples".
So, one of the things that shaitan does is to cause fear. "Shaitan 
threatens you with poverty" [The Holy Quran, 2: 268]. He frightens us 
with poverty. According to an interpretation of this holy ayah, this was
 a threat. On the other hand, one of the things that he does is to 
tempt. Shaitan gives certain promises which are deceitful: "Shaitan 
makes them promises, and creates in them false desires, but shaitan's 
promises are nothing but deception" [The Holy Quran, 4: 120]. 
He gives promises and awakens desires in people's hearts. He paints a
 colorful, fake and imaginary future - like a mirage - for the eyes of 
believers. "But shaitan's promises are nothing but deception". His 
promises are hollow. On the one hand, he makes threats and on the other 
hand, he tempts. This is like America's behavior in the present time. 
This is like the behavior that arrogant powers always show. On the one 
hand, they make threats and on the other hand, they tempt. These 
temptations are not only personal. They temp in general ways. They say, 
"We do this, we do that". But they do not and they lie. This is what 
shaitan does. 
All the things that shaitan does - including tempting and making 
threats - are for the sake of making our calculation system stop working
 so that we make wrong calculations. When one's calculation system stops
 working, things go out of order. Making wrong calculations is one of 
the greatest dangers. It sometimes threatens man's life and it sometimes
 threatens his fate. This is because man's power and capabilities are 
under the domination of his will and his will is under the influence of 
his calculation system. If his calculation system does not work 
properly, his will makes a decision and moves towards the direction 
which is wrong. 
In such circumstances, all his power and capabilities move in this 
wrong direction. This is what we should be careful about. As I said, for
 a person who does not have a responsibility, taking care has a certain 
meaning and for you and I who have a responsibility, it has a different 
meaning. We should take care not to let our calculation system witness a
 disruption by human and jinn shaitans. We should take care not to 
misunderstand issues. Shaitan is not only from among jinns. He is not 
only iblis: "Likewise, did We make for every messenger an enemy - 
shaitans among men and jinns, inspiring each other with flowery 
discourses by way of deception" [The Holy Quran, 6: 112]. 
Shaitans among men and jinns help one another. I would like to stress
 that one of the mistakes in the area of calculation is that we remain 
confined to visible and purely materialistic factors. One of the 
mistakes is to ignore spiritual factors, divine traditions - those which
 God has informed us about and those that are invisible. This is one of 
the great mistakes in the area of calculation. God has said, "If you 
help the cause of Allah, He will help you and make firm your stance" 
[The Holy Quran, 47: 7].
Can this be said in a clearer way? If you move on the path of God and
 if you help God's religion, God will help you. This is unchangeable: 
"You shall not find any change in the course of Allah" [The Holy Quran, 
33: 62]. If you move on the path of reviving the divine religion and if 
you preserve this path, God will help you. This has been said by the 
Holy Quran with such clarity. This is the divine promise. We have 
experienced this in practice. 
You should know that this era of the history of the Revolution will 
be one of the most prominent historical eras in the history that will be
 discussed by future generations. In this materialistic world, in the 
world of the domination of superpowers and in the world of widespread 
hostility towards Islam and towards Islamic teachings and values, a 
system has been created based on Islam and in an area where the agents 
of deviating powers had exerted more influence than any other area in 
the world. 
This is a strange event. You and I have gotten used to it. This is 
the same as "If you help the cause of Allah, He will help you and make 
firm your feet". You will not falter, as we did not. The people of Iran 
did not falter. There have been so many pressures, so many plots, so 
many cruelties and so much unfairness, but the people of Iran did not 
change their minds. This is one of the divine traditions. 
A holy ayah in the Holy Quran says, "Have you not considered how 
Allah sets forth a parable of a good word being like a good tree, whose 
root is firm and whose branches are in heaven, yielding its fruit in 
every season by the permission of its Lord? [The Holy Quran, 14: 24-25].
 A good word, a good action and a pure deed - one that is for God - 
prevails. It will grow roots, it will become strong and it will yield 
fruits. The Islamic Republic is that good word. It has been preserved 
like the good tree and it has become stronger. Today, the Islamic 
Republic - as a system, government and a political entity - is not 
comparable with 30 years ago. 
In the second ayah after these ayahs, God says, "Allah will establish
 in strength those who believe, with the word that stands firm, in this 
world and in the hereafter" [The Holy Quran, 14: 27]. He will 
re-establish the same strength. These factors should be seen and they 
should be counted in our calculations. Not all the factors in achieving 
happiness, sinking into misery, making progress, suffering from 
backwardness, achieving success and witnessing defeat are confined to 
the common worldly factors that materialistic people rely on. These 
spiritual factors exist alongside worldly factors as well.
What I want to say in this part of my speech - which is the main part
 - is that today, we should not make a mistake in our calculations. You 
should not let the enemy influence your calculation system. You should 
not let him tempt you. You should not let him influence you with his 
temptations or threats. 
Today, the battle between the Islamic Republic - which began with the
 victory of the Revolution and which is continuing with the same 
strength - is the same battle that existed between the prophets and the 
shaitans of the time, who were from among men and jinns. We are after 
lofty ideals. We are after forming an Islamic community, an Islamic 
government, an Islamic country and an Islamic ummah. We are after 
achieving the goals that great prophets, saints and martyrs pursued.
And the satanic regimes of the time have formed one front and they 
are naturally opposed to such a movement. This is why they create 
obstacles and make threats. Despite the glamour of this front and its 
superficial and material splendor, this divine and prophet-like movement
 is taking its path and moving forward. It is exerting influence and it 
is expanding and developing on a daily basis.
Today, what we witness in the behavior of global arrogance is this. 
Its goal is to create disruption in our calculation system. In other 
arenas, arrogance has failed. It has failed to do anything. In real 
arenas, only two material factors have been available to the camp of 
arrogance: one is military threats and another is sanctions. Arrogance 
has nothing except for these two things. The hands of arrogance are tied
 in terms of the power of reason and logic and the capability to prove 
its legitimacy. It can only carry out two tasks: one is to issue 
military threats - this is a task that it constantly carries out - and 
another is to impose sanctions. 
And there are two cures for these. Sanctions can be counteracted with
 diligence in the area of the economy of resistance. The points that the
 honorable President raised today had been raised by him before and they
 are completely true. Economic plans should be prepared, pursued and 
implemented with the assumption that sanctions will remain there. 
Imagine that sanctions will not be lifted at all. Well, this is what 
they themselves are saying as well. They too say that sanctions will not
 be touched. Even from this moment, they have begun saying, "Even if we 
reach a deal on the nuclear issue, it does not mean that all sanctions 
will be lifted. There are still other issues to be resolved".
This is what we have always said. I have repeatedly said in this 
meeting and different other meetings that the nuclear issue is an 
excuse. Even if the nuclear issue did not exist, they would make other 
excuses. For example, there is the issue of human rights and the issue 
of women. They fabricate many different issues. Fabricating and making 
excuses is not a demanding job. Moreover, the propaganda apparatus and 
empire is in their hands. Therefore, the cure for the issue of sanctions
 is the economy of resistance. Later on, I will discuss a few points in 
this regard. 
As for the issue of military threats, there are very few people in 
today's world who take these military threats seriously. Of course, the 
Americans say, "The Iranians do not take it seriously". But it is not 
only us who do not take it seriously. There are many people in the world
 who do not take this threat seriously. Global spectators do not believe
 that this threat is a serious one because the opinion of global 
spectators and those who have a political awareness is that if it were 
economical for America to launch an attack, it would not hesitate even 
for one moment. 
Will these people be sad if some people are killed and if a crisis 
arises somewhere? Are these people - who wholeheartedly supported a wolf
 named "Saddam" for eight years, who hit a passenger plane while it was 
on air and while they had no excuse, and who destroyed and shed the 
blood of several hundred people including innocent and uninformed women,
 men and children - afraid of killing people? Which of those people who 
created crises wherever they could and who staged color uprisings - as 
they say, color revolutions - are not led by arrogant powers? And these 
arrogant powers are headed by America. 
They create crises inside countries and it does not matter to them 
whether these crises lead to murder and domestic wars or not. Are those 
who attacked Afghanistan and Iraq, those who killed hundreds of 
thousands of people in Iraq and those who killed people one by one in 
Iraq and other cities of Iraq under the command of intelligence services
 and mercenary and terrorist companies - such as Blackwater which we 
spoke about once - afraid of killing people? Are they afraid that other 
people may be killed? Do they care about such things?
The issue is not that they make military threats because they do not 
want to [attack]. They constantly say, "Israel issues military threats, 
but America prevents them from waging a war". Well why does America 
prevent it from doing so? If this claim is true, what is the reason? Is 
their conscience pricked if a country is attacked and a number of people
 are killed? The answer is no. The reason is that they do not consider 
waging a war to be economical. I firmly say that launching a military 
attack against the Islamic Republic of Iran is not economical for any 
country. 
Today, the Americans themselves criticize their attack on Iraq. The 
important and noteworthy point is that they do not criticize it because 
it was a crime. Rather, they say that it was not to the advantage of 
America. That is to say, if it had been to the advantage of America, it 
would have been alright. They do not say, "We made a mistake by killing 
people. We made a mistake by attacking innocent people. We made a 
mistake by letting our soldiers kick people's doors in. We made a 
mistake by letting them kill women and children in front of the eyes of 
people". They do not say such things.
In the present time, their soldiers suffer from psychological 
problems because of the crimes that were committed there, but they do 
not acknowledge this officially. Rather, they say that the attack was 
not economical. So, the enemy is empty-handed both in the area of 
sanctions and in the area of military threats: "So, lose not heart, nor 
fall into despair for you must gain mastery if you are true in faith" 
[The Holy Quran, 3: 139]. If we believe in God, the enemy cannot do 
anything in real and practical arenas. 
Now that it cannot do anything in real arenas and now that his hands 
are empty in the area of influence, what is the enemy's cure? The cure 
is that it creates disruption in the calculation system of the other 
side - our calculation system. They are pursuing this task through 
propaganda, political work and different contacts. They know that the 
Islamic Republic is capable of achieving its goals. From their 
viewpoint, the Islamic Republic must not want this. If it wants it, it 
can achieve it. They want to do something to make us stop wanting. 
Today, this is the effort of the world of arrogance which is headed by 
America. This is the same soft war that we have been speaking about 
since a few years ago. Other people have spoken about, written and 
discussed it as well. 
They cannot change our calculations. From the first day, the 
calculations of the Islamic Republic have been based on reason and 
logic. The elements that have formed these calculations are these: the 
first one is trust in God and the traditions of creation. The second one
 is distrusting the enemy and knowing him. One of the factors in 
reliance on God and the traditions of creation is trust in the people 
and their faith, trust in affection and kindness, trust in pure motives,
 trust in the people's honesty - our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) was the 
manifestation of this kind of trust - belief in self-confidence and the 
fact that we can, reliance on action, avoidance of idleness, trust in 
divine assistance, reliance on responsibility and effort on the path of 
responsibility.
From the first day until today, these have been the things that have 
formed the basis and the infrastructure of the elements of the 
reasonable Islamic Republic. You should refer to Imam's (r.a.) 
statements. His statements are imbued with these concepts and teachings:
 benefitting from experience - including the way arrogant powers have 
behaved towards weak nations - and diligence for the sake of 
independence, remaining independent and living in an independent way. 
What does independence mean? Some people find faults with the essence
 and meaning of independence? They ask, "What does such independence 
mean?" Independence means freedom from the will of foreigners and other 
people. This is the meaning of independence. Can any reasonable mind 
deny this? The meaning of independence is that a people should be able 
to determine their own fate. 
This country did not enjoy independence for many years. The 
quasi-independence that existed was political. But the key of the 
government and the country was in the hands of other people. It was they
 who made the decisions. It was they who did everything. There were some
 people inside the country some of whom were attached to them and some 
of whom were not very attached to them, but they had to follow them. 
Independence is resistance against such a condition. 
Well, arrogance is opposed to this reason. If someone thinks that the
 name of Islam makes them oppose the Islamic Republic, they should know 
that this is not the case. The name of Islam and Islamic practices and 
obligations do not make anyone show opposition. 
Once, Imam (r.a.) said in one of his speeches, "When the English 
entered and occupied Iraq in the second decade of the 20th century, an 
English commander saw someone shouting and raising his voice. He became 
nervous. Someone was saying adhan from a minaret. He asked, "What is 
this noise?" They said, "He is saying adhan". Then he asked, "Is it 
against us?" someone replied, "No, it is not". He said, "OK, let him say
 whatever he wants". He did not care for the kind of adhan which was not
 against him and the kind of "Allahu Akbar" which did not humiliate him.
 
So, the issue is not the issue of Islam and Islamic obligations. 
Today, some countries carry the name of Islam and they observe Islamic 
obligations more or less, but their oil, their supplies and their vital 
resources are in the hands of arrogance. And the enemies do not show any
 opposition to such countries. On the contrary, they have friendly 
relations with them.
Recently, I read something interesting somewhere. An American expert 
has said, "Reconciliation between Iran and America is possible, but it 
is not possible between the Islamic Republic and America". He is right. 
Not only is reconciliation with the kind of Iran that is led by the 
Pahlavi family - which makes everything available to the Americans - 
possible, but it is also necessary. It is even necessary to do something
 beyond reconciliation for this kind of Iran. The issue is the issue of 
the Islamic Republic. The Islamic Republic means independence, freedom, 
commitment to Islamic faith, movement on the path of Islam, refusal to 
give in to the enemies' impositions and invitation to the unity of the 
Islamic Ummah. 
This is the exact opposite of what they want. Of course, they are 
unfriendly towards this kind of Iran. Well, this was the main issue that
 I wanted to discuss: we should not forget about self-confidence, faith 
and action. We should not forget about resistance against laziness, 
carelessness, idleness and exhaustion. These are the lessons of the 
month of Ramadan. 
I would like to offer some pieces of advice. One piece of advice is 
addressed to all officials. Taking a look at the political conditions of
 the world and the region shows us that we are at a sensitive point. You
 should know that today, there is a historical turn in the real sense of
 the word. If you are not strong, you will be bullied not only by 
America and the west but also by a creature named Saddam. If you are not
 strong, you will be bullied and you will suffer from their impositions.
 You should be strong. 
What are the elements of strength? How can we understand and accept 
that we are strong? These are the elements of strength: High morale, 
hopefulness, hard work and diligence, identifying economic, cultural and
 security rifts - you should identify and see these rifts - cooperation 
between different organizations in charge of affairs and cooperation 
between these organizations and the people. This is one piece of advice 
which is addressed to everyone. 
The second piece of advice is that you should work as hard as you can
 and as long as you have opportunities. Opportunities are limited. All 
of us are individuals who are moving towards death. We have limited 
time. We should work as hard as we can and as long as we are alive. You 
should not say, "They do not allow us to do things". This "they do not 
allow us" is not an acceptable statement. Many people used to say, "They
 do not allow us". Now too, some people say this. What does "they do not
 allow us" mean? You have certain capabilities and resources in the 
Majlis, in the administration, in the judiciary branch, in the Armed 
Forces and in the different sectors which are affiliated with the 
administration. You should benefit from these resources and work as hard
 as you can. You should not even allow one single moment to be wasted.
The third piece of advice is that you should coordinate your moves 
with the principles of the Revolution. You should avoid creating uproar 
and you should attend to solving the problems of the people. The fourth 
piece of advice is that you should consider departmental convergence and
 convergence with other branches to be important.
I always advise the honorable officials in charge of the three 
branches of government to hold meetings with one another. Many issues 
are resolved in these joint meetings such as meetings between the 
administration and the Majlis, meetings between the judiciary branch and
 the administration and meetings between the judiciary branch and the 
Majlis. These meetings and these exchanges of opinion lead to 
convergence. Another issue is the issue of jihadi management. This piece
 of advice is related to everyone.
I would like to offer a piece of advice to the administration and the
 executive branch in particular. First, everyone should know that I 
support the administration, as I supported all previous administrations.
 I trust the high-ranking executive officials. All the administrations 
that held office after the Revolution have been elected by the people 
and since I have been entrusted with the task of Leadership, I have 
supported all these administrations. 
All administrations have certain strong points and certain weak 
points. There is no administration that says, "I have only strong points
 and I do not have any weak point". And there is no one who says, "All 
its activities are negative". This is not the case. All administrations 
have a combination of strong and weak points. 
Of course, compared to previous administrations, it is better to make
 criticisms in a well-informed way. It is not appropriate to make 
criticisms in public. The criticisms that we level at the administration
 should be fair, respectful and sympathetic. Criticism should not mean 
catching someone red-handed and creating obstacles for them. 
Second, I would like to say to executive officials that they should 
take the economy of resistance seriously. Well, the honorable President 
said that he will do this. Other officials too have said this more or 
less, but it there should be action: "And among those who rely on things
 other than action". It should not be the case that we say, "we will do 
this", but we act slowly. The focus of the economy of resistance is on 
increasing domestic production and strengthening the domestic economy. 
This leads to economic progress. Economic progress is achieved with 
production. It is achieved by activating the domestic capacities of the 
country. It is not achieved with anything else.
An important piece of advice on the issue of the economy of 
resistance is addressed to banks. Banks should play their roles. They 
should coordinate their activities with the policies on the economy of 
resistance and with the administration's plans in this area. They can 
play their roles - positive roles. Of course, they can play a negative 
role as well. 
I would like to offer a very important piece of advice to the 
industrial sector. The officials in charge of this sector should make 
efforts. They should increase their efforts and they should identify the
 capacities. There are many capacities in the country and they should 
activate them.
As for the agricultural sector, agriculture has a vital significance.
 It is necessary for the administration and governmental policies to 
adopt a supportive outlook towards the agricultural sector. This 
supportive outlook exists all over the world. The agricultural sector is
 supported by governments. Therefore, the existing problems in the area 
of agriculture should be removed. The problems of farmers and 
stockbreeders should be resolved. Sometimes, we receive certain 
complaints in this regard. One becomes upset and sad about the problems 
that they have.
The third piece of advice for the administration: the 
administration's slogan is moderation. Moderation is a very good slogan.
 We too stress moderation. Extremism is condemned by us and it is bad. 
The piece of advice that I would like to offer is that you should take 
care not to let certain people sideline religious orientations with the 
slogan of moderation. Some people are doing this and I see it on the 
political scene of the country. Some people are trying to sideline those
 religious orientations that are prepared to face danger sooner than 
everyone else. They are doing this with the slogan of moderation and 
avoidance of extremism. It is these religious orientations that support 
administrations - in the real sense of the word - during problems. 
Islam is the manifestation of moderation: "And those who are with him
 are strong against unbelievers, but compassionate amongst each other" 
[The Holy Quran, 48: 29]. This is moderation. "Fight the unbelievers who
 gird you about" [The Holy Quran, 9: 123]. This is moderation. Enjoining
 to do good and forbiudding evil is moderation as well. Moderation is 
comprised of such things. The meaning of moderation is not that we 
prevent religious individuals, orientations and groups from doing things
 that they are responsible for.
Another piece of advice is addressed to political orientations and 
the press. I have a piece of advice for the brothers and officials in 
charge of political organizations and the press. You should be careful. A
 tumultuous environment is not to the advantage of the country. Some 
individuals should not get on the people's nerves. One witnesses that 
these people do such things. Psychological security is important for the
 people. They should not reinforce the environment of quarrels and 
differences. They should not repeat the enemies' statements either. 
I read many newspapers every day, as I read many other things. 
Sometimes, there are certain statements and headlines in newspapers that
 are perfect for such and such an American newspaper. Surprisingly, such
 statements exist in American and non-American newspapers as well and 
these newspapers are sent for us. You should be careful. Such statements
 and headlines are not appropriate. 
A sensitive issue that exists in the present time is the nuclear 
issue. The statements that the honorable President made today were very 
good and correct. The other side has offered us two options: death or 
fever. It wants to force us into accepting the latter. For example, on 
the issue of enrichment, their goal is to make the Islamic Republic 
satisfied with 10,000 SWUs. But they have begun from 500, 1000. 
Approximately, 10,000 SWUs are the product of 10,000 centrifuges - the 
ones that we already have. This is their goal. Officials tell us that we
 need about 190,000 SWUs. It is possible that we will not need this 
number of SWUs this year and in two, five years from now, but this is 
the definite need of the country. And the needs of the country should be
 met. 
The statements that the Americans make on this issue are untruthfull.
 A country needs nuclear energy. It has managed to achieve this science 
and technology on its own, with its own efforts and follow-up, without 
stealing it from others and without colluding with other people. Now, 
they are persisting that we should not have it. Well, why? What are the 
reasons behind this "we should not". 
They say that they are afraid of a nuclear bomb. First, 
non-proliferation has its own ways and this is alright. Second, if 
someone is supposed to be concerned about the issue of nuclear weapons, 
that someone is not America. America itself has several thousand nuclear
 warheads and nuclear bombs and it has used them. Well, what is it to 
you? Who are you to be concerned whether a country will have access to a
 nuclear weapon or not? However, we can give guarantees to those 
organizations that are in charge of such affairs. Of course, these 
guarantees have already been given. That is to say, it is clear that we 
are not after nuclear weapons. Perhaps, they themselves know this as 
well. So, the essence of what they are saying is untruthfull.
Of course, we believe in our negotiating team. We are sure that they 
will not be satisfied with transgression against the rights and dignity 
of the country and the people. We are sure that they will not allow this
 to happen. The issue of enrichment is an important issue. Moreover, the
 issue of research and development should definitely receive attention. 
Another issue is preserving the organizations and sites that the enemy 
cannot destroy. They place emphasis on Fordo because it is not 
accessible to them. They say, "You should not have a site that we cannot
 destroy and harm". Is this not ridiculous? 
The last issue is the issue of the region and Iraq which is, in fact,
 a fitna. By Allah's favor, the religious people of Iraq will manage to 
extinguish and destroy this fitna. By Allah's favor, regional nations 
will move towards growth and material and spiritual transcendence on a 
daily basis.
Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household 
(a.s.), make what we said and heard serve You and Your path. Accept from
 us what we said and heard. Dear God, help us succeed in making efforts,
 showing diligence and doing sincere work. 
Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household 
(a.s.), bestow on us the requirements for satisfying You. Do not deprive
 us of Your mercy and forgiveness in this auspicious month. Associate 
the pure souls of martyrs and the immaculate soul of our magnanimous 
Imam (r.a.) with Your saints. 
Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household 
(a.s.), make us be among Your thankful and patient servants. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

