
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech at Annual Ramadan Quranic Meeting"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings be upon His Messenger and his blessed household 
I thank Allah the Exalted for giving us the opportunity to live long 
enough so that we can begin this year's auspicious month of Ramadan in 
this enlightened meeting. I would like to welcome all you honorable 
qurra, esteemed memorizers of the Holy Quran and dear Quranic 
personalities - particularly the brothers who performed a program - and 
the honorable host. I hope that by Allah's favor, all of you will be 
among the companions of the Holy Quran in this world and in the 
hereafter.
In my opinion, what Quranic personalities do in our country today is a
 strategic and important task. Although it is true that familiarity with
 the Holy Quran will raise the position and deepen the understanding of 
those who read it and who are familiar with it - this is important in 
itself and the blessing that you reciters and qurra receive from the 
Holy Quran is an important achievement in itself - there is another 
achievement beyond this, whose scope is broader. This achievement is 
helping the Islamic community get close to understanding and becoming 
familiar with the Holy Quran. This is very important. 
Today, our Quranic society, qurra, memorizers and reciters of the 
Holy Quran and those who are making efforts on this path are - in fact -
 making this strategic move and this is very important. The value of 
this should be appreciated. 
The truth is that our Quranic society has thankfully made great 
progress in recent years. We have been holding this annual meeting for 
many years and I am witnessing the visible progress of familiarity with 
and recitation of the Holy Quran among our people, our youth and those 
who are interested in the Holy Quran. I am witnessing the increasing 
progress of this issue. This requires thanking God. 
However, we are far away from the ideal. This does not mean that the 
level of our qurra is personally or generally lower than the ideal 
level. This is not what I mean. Thankfully, we have good qurra who are 
at a high level in terms of recitation, tartil, voice, meaning and 
quality of recitation in a way that they revive Quranic meanings for the
 audience. Thankfully, our progress is very good in this regard. 
But we have not reached the ideal point on a public level and the gap
 is wide. We should act in a way that all the people in our country and 
society become familiar with the Holy Quran in some ways, that they 
understand Quranic meanings and that they refer to the Holy Quran even 
if they gain a limited understanding of Quranic meanings. We should 
reach such a point. 
The countries who speak Arabic pass through this stage more easily. 
But in our country, we who do not speak Arabic pass through this stage 
with more difficulty. Despite this, as I have said many times, Quranic 
words are thankfully familiar words for us. Understanding Quranic words 
are not difficult for our people. By Allah's favor, more familiarity and
 practice can help our society reach the ideal point.
And you dear brothers should pay attention that the Islamic 
government and the Islamic community become strong from the inside 
through familiarity with the Holy Quran on a daily basis. Becoming 
strong from the inside is what enables societies to take their ideal 
paths and it gives them the power to face challenges. We should be 
strong from the inside. 
This is achieved in the shade of familiarity with the Holy Quran. 
Familiarity with the Holy Quran strengthens faith, it increases reliance
 on God, it increases reliance on divine promises, it reduces one's fear
 of material problems, it gives people spiritual strength and 
self-confidence and it shows them the paths to getting close to God. 
These are the advantages and benefits of familiarity with the Holy 
Quran.
The Holy Quran is the book of understanding and light: "No one will 
sit beside this Quran but that when he rises he will achieve one 
addition or one diminution - addition in his guidance or elimination in 
his spiritual blindness" [Nahjul Balaghah, Sermon 176]. This narration 
is attributed to the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.). He said that 
anyone who sits beside the Holy Quran will achieve one addition or one 
diminution when he rises. When he rises, he will achieve either an 
addition or a diminution: addition in guidance and diminution in 
blindness - that is to say, one's ignorance decreases. When one reads 
the Holy Quran, one's insight and wisdom increase. Sitting beside the 
Holy Quran is like this. 
Of course, this is achieved through attention and deliberation. The 
Holy Quran should be read by paying careful attention. We should pay 
attention that a mere formation of sounds is not enough. We should read 
the Holy Quran by paying attention to the meaning and to Quranic 
requests. If this is done, then the Islamic community will find its 
path: "Allah is the Protector of those who have faith: from the depths 
of darkness He will lead them forth into light" [The Holy Quran, 2: 
257]. 
If we read the Holy Quran, we will get out of the darkness of 
superstitions, fear and illusions and we will be guided towards light: 
the light of guidance, understanding and closeness to God. These are the
 characteristics that one achieves through sitting beside the Holy Quran
 and becoming familiar with it. 
We need this. The Islamic Ummah needs this today. The Islamic 
community is faced with serious challenges today. I have said many times
 that paying attention to challenges does not mean that we should feel 
the enemy is stronger than us. It does not mean that he will defeat us. 
This is not the case. The Islamic community is faced with certain 
challenges. Being faced with challenges is an opportunity for Islam to -
 by Allah's favor - take one more rung, make one more move and pass 
through one more stage in the movement of history to the desired 
transcendence. Today, we are in such conditions. 
During the pre-revolutionary era and before the emergence of Islamic 
Awakening, we used to see that the world of Islam was ignorant. Today, 
the world of Islam is achieving wisdom. And the events that are taking 
place in the world of Islam will help the Islamic Ummah to achieve 
wisdom. These events make us wiser and they will clarify our 
responsibilities. The enemies of Islam are afraid of the existence of 
this foresight in believers and the Islamic Ummah. We should strengthen 
this foresight on a daily basis. The first stage is to know these 
challenges. 
What is witnessed in the world of Islam is that the enemies of Islam 
are confronting Islam in the name of Islam and in Islam's clothing. This
 is the same thing that our magnanimous Imam (may God bestow paradise on
 him) said: American Islam versus the original Islam introduced by the 
Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). 
American Islam is the kind of Islam that compromises with taghut and 
Zionism and that it is at the service of America's goals. It is Islam on
 the face of it and it is referred to as Islam. They may observe a 
number of Islamic obligations. Of course, according to what we have 
heard, those who have emerged in some countries - recently in Iraq and 
before that in other countries - in the name of Islam and by behaving in
 a biased way are not completely committed to religious obligations and 
practices. But we do not have precise information in this regard. What 
is clear is that they definitely move in the opposite direction of 
Islam. 
From the viewpoint of Islam, following and accepting the wilayat of 
the enemies of religion and arrogant powers are among the things that 
believers should avoid: "Those who believe fight in the cause of Allah, 
and those who reject faith fight in the cause of taghut" [The Holy 
Quran, 4: 76]. If you move on the path of taghut in the name of Islam, 
you should know that this kind of Islam is fake, that it is not real and
 that there is a problem. Today, the situation is like this.
Of 
course, we can see the enemy's hand. We should understand that the evil 
hand of the intelligence services of the enemies of Islam, play a 
definite role - either directly or indirectly - in creating these events
 and uproars for Muslims. As we can see, it is they who are directing 
the scene. And the signs and reasons for this are clear. If the Islamic 
Ummah becomes close to Quranic concepts and if it gains a deeper 
familiarity with it, such events occur less. The relationship of hearts 
with God and their connection to Him prevents them from betraying the 
path of God. I hope that this will happen.
You Quranic youth and you who spend your life, your youth and your 
energy on the path of the Holy Quran should thank Allah the Exalted. If 
Allah the Exalted helps youth and teenagers to get close to the Holy 
Quran and to choose the path of the Holy Quran, this is a great 
blessing. Such a thing did not exist in previous eras. In the past, the 
Holy Quran was not popular among youth and it was not promoted. Today, 
the Holy Quran is thankfully being promoted among youth. And you are 
among the influential elements behind this promotion. You should 
appreciate the value of this. 
The brothers who are active in Quranic areas should try to "Invite 
people to religion with means other than your [their] tongues" [Bihar 
al-Anwar, Volume 67, page 309]. They should show that they are among 
outstanding personalities in terms of commitment to religious 
obligations and tasks. They should show this so that the influence of 
the Holy Quran shows itself in their actions, in their public behavior, 
in their conduct, in those Islamic aspects which are visible or hidden, 
and in Islamic quality. 
They should observe these things: "Believers are those who, when 
Allah is mentioned, feel a tremor in their hearts, and when they hear 
His signs rehearsed, find their faith strengthened" [The Holy Quran, 8: 
2]. The brothers who are close to the Holy Quran more than other people 
should show a sign of enjoying these characteristics. What you are doing
 today - thankfully today, a Quranic sign is a glorious sign - can be a 
good model for youth, teenagers and your audience. They can learn from 
you. You should act in a way that they learn those things from you which
 help them get close to God. 
Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household, 
keep us alive with the Holy Quran and on the path of the Holy Quran. 
Make us be the companions of the Holy Quran. Make us die on the path of 
the Holy Quran. Associate us with the Holy Quran. Make the Holy Quran 
satisfied and pleased with us. 
Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household 
and by the blessedness of the immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam 
(r.a.) and the pure souls of martyrs, bestow on us today's precious gift
 from this meeting, these programs and these recitations.
Dear God, by the blessedness of Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his household, 
make us steadfast on the path of Islam, the Holy Quran, martyrs and 
soldiers of the path of truth. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

