
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech at Imam Hussein (a.s.) University"/>
All praise is due to Allah and peace and greetings be upon His messenger and upon his immaculate and pure household.
I would like to congratulate you dear youth, graduates and cadets in this center of knowledge, understanding and culture. Thankfully, this center is one of the sweet and auspicious phenomena of the Islamic Revolution. I express my gratitude for the innovative and beautiful programs that have been launched in the arena until this hour.
Without a doubt, the issue of new areas of growth in the Islamic Republic is one of the most important and fundamental issues. If any Revolution and movement does not enjoy new and constant areas of growth, it will be condemned to destruction and annihilation. During the past 35 years, the Islamic Republic has managed to present new images of itself in line with the needs of the time. Certain people were worried about the issue of downfalls. It was said that growth will overcome downfalls and this happened. 
What is important for the new generation and for all those people who want to utilize their youthful energy at the service of lofty goals and ideals is to look to bright and distant futures. We should not adopt a short-sighted outlook. The distant future is creating an Islamic civilization, one is that is new and that is in line with the needs and capacities of today's man. Man has been wounded by different events in recent centuries. He is wounded and sad. Young generations are suffering from despair, hopelessness and depression. Islam can help these generations discover new horizons. It can gladden their hearts and it can help them achieve the kind of dignity which befits their position. A new Islamic civilization means this. 
And you are the most important and fundamental nuclei in creating this civilization. The future belongs to you. You today's youth are the builders of the future of this country, this civilization and - in fact - the world. Part of the new saplings in the Islamic Republic grow in Imam Hussein (a.s.) University. Wherever you are - whether those who study at this university or all the committed youth in any corner of the country - you can play your part. 
This university is an important place. It is the center of knowledge, research, revolutionary teachings and intellectual and psychological cultivation. You youth should appreciate the value of this center. Managers and officials should do their best to make the most of this opportunity, as they are thankfully doing this. 
Today, the Islamic Republic is faced with certain challenges. The existence of a challenge means moving forward and making increasing innovations. The existence of a challenge does not worry wise, insightful and courageous individuals. The existence of a challenge makes committed individuals look at available and untapped capacities. These challenges exist because the Islamic Republic has a great capability for achieving progress and increasing power. 
Our enemies see this. I will tell you dear youth that the world faced great disasters during the past one, two centuries with the emergence of the hideous and sinister phenomenon of colonialism and global arrogance. The most important disaster is global arrogance. Global arrogance means division of the world into two groups: the oppressor and the oppressed.
Arrogant powers have gotten used to dominating and bullying others and interfering in the economy, politics, education and lifestyle of other peoples because of their arrogance and desire for domination. They have gotten used to possessing everything in the world. Western governments - headed by America during the past decades - have gotten used to this disgusting phenomenon. 
They have gotten used to bullying, taking the global economy in their hands and dominating the culture of other peoples. In sum, they have gotten used to taking the affairs of other countries in their hands. When a people and a country stand up against this hideous habit, they become extremely angry. The Islamic Revolution made a great country - which is located in a sensitive geographical area and which enjoys numerous resources and mines - with a resisting, courageous and talented people stand up against this hideous and disgusting process. This country is our dear Iran. 
What makes them angry is this. What has made global arrogance angry is the fact that a people in an important country with a very rich historical background and with exceptional characteristics have stood up against the hideous habit of oppressing and being oppressed. This is what makes America angry. This is what makes the united camp of arrogant powers oppose the Islamic Republic. This is what draws the hearts of nations all over the world towards the people of Iran. This is what makes the many governments which do not have the courage to stand up against global arrogance, enjoy the resistance of the Islamic Republic. They enjoy our resistance although they do not have the courage and boldness to express this. We can clearly see this in our international interactions.
The enmity of our enemies is rooted in the resistance of the Islamic Republic against global arrogance and against the hideous habit of dividing the world into the oppressor and the oppressed. Other issues are excuses. Today, their excuse is the nuclear issue. One day, their excuse is human rights and another day, their excuse is something else. 
They want to discourage the Islamic Republic from showing resistance against bullies, thugs, blackmailers and global oppressors. Of course, this will not happen. The people of Iran have proven their capabilities in different arenas. The people of Iran have proven that one can make scientific and social progress and achieve international influence and political dignity in the world even without relying on America. 
The Islamic Republic has proven this and they are unhappy about it. The reason why they are angry is that a people have managed to solve their problems, challenge others and impose their presence and influence on them despite their opposition and enmity, without relying on global bullies, blackmailers and extortionists and by showing indifference towards them. They have become angry. Well, let them be angry. As our dear martyr Shahid Beheshti once said: "Let them die of their anger". 
The people of Iran have chosen the right path. They have identified the right path. We have understood that we can move forward, become strong, open unknown and undiscovered arenas of human thought and knowledge and attract the hearts of nations throughout the world without relying on bullies and blackmailers. We have understood this and we have put it into practice. We will move forward and the enemy will fail. 
The majority of people throughout the world are with the Islamic Republic. Even those peoples whose governments are arrogant - those people who know the truth - believe in the Islamic Republic. They praise and hold the Islamic Republic in respect. The news empire of arrogance wants to prevent nations from knowing about the people of Iran. But today despite this, the eyes, heart and tongue of an important part of the world is thankfully filled with the signs of peoples' belief and trust in and praise of the people of Iran. 
I do not agree with using the fake term - "global community" - that our enemies use against the Islamic Republic. Which global community? Those who confront the Islamic Republic do not represent the global community. They are a few arrogant governments which are mostly under the influence of a bunch of plundering and notorious Zionist owners of companies. 
This is not the global community. They call themselves the global community. The global community is comprised of nations. The global community is comprised of those oppressed governments which do not have the courage and boldness to express their opposition, but which would do so if they had the opportunity. The global community is comprised of the scholars, intellectuals, thinkers, knowledgeable personalities, well-wishers and freedom seekers who live throughout the live and who understand and praise the truth. 
Dear youth, the future belongs to you. You should and you will conquer horizons. You should prepare and build yourselves. Each and every individual in this university should try to acquire knowledge, carry out research, gain wisdom and learn military skills - I place great emphasis on military skills. Thankfully, talents and capabilities are very good. You can accomplish great feats. You should prepare yourselves for accomplishing great feats in a- by Allah's favor - not too distant future.
By Allah's favor, the pure souls of the martyrs - today, a reflection of the martyrs' souls was witnessed in this arena - the immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam and the immaculate souls of the Imams (God's greetings be upon them) will be your supporters and hopefully, the holy heart of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) will be pleased with you. I hope that by Allah's favor, all of you benefit from the prayers of that great Imam (a.s.).
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
