
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech at the Shrine of Imam Ridha (a.s.)"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace  and greetings be upon our Master and Prophet and the love of our hearts,  Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa Muhammad, upon his immaculate, pure, chosen and  infallible household, especially the one remaining with Allah on earth. Allah,  Your blessings be upon Fatimah, her father, her husband and her children.  Allah, bestow as many blessings upon Your representative  Ali ibn Musa - as  Your knowledge encompasses. Bestow Your blessing upon him, one that is as  permanent as Your greatness and Your magnificence. Allah, send as many  greetings to Your representative  Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha  as Your knowledge  emcompasses. Send Your greeting to him, one that is as permanent as Your glory,  Your greatness and Your magnificence.
I thank Allah the  Exalted for giving me the opportunity and letting me live long enough to speak  to you dear brothers and sisters once more and one more year in this  enlightened and divine shrine and among this enthusiastic and friendly group of  people. I deem it necessary to congratulate all the dear brothers and sisters  who are listening to my statements and all the people of Iran on the occasion  of Norouz and the arrival of the new year.
I ask Allah the  Exalted to bestow an auspicious year and a happy life on the people of Iran and  all Muslims throughout the world. I hope that Allah the Exalted bestows his  blessings so that the year which started from today will be in line with the  dignity of the great people of Iran. I hope that it will be a year which is  full of divine blessings and divine attention.
I would like to say  a few things about the year 1392 which came to an end yesterday. In the message  that I issued in the beginning of this year, I pointed out that the people of  Iran achieved political valor in the year 1392. Without a doubt, political  valor showed itself most visibly in two great movements of the people of Iran:  one was the presidential election which was held in the middle of the first  half of the year and the other was the massive and great rallies of the people  of Iran in the second half of the year.
We have said many  things about elections, both last year's presidential elections and many other  elections which have been held from the beginning of the Revolution until  today. Also, both this humble person and other people have said many things   which we do not want to repeat - about the massive and great rallies on the 22nd  of Bahman. There are two points about these two events, both of which are  comprehensive broadcast about the conditions of our country and our people in  the face of the malevolent mudslinging of global propaganda. There is a point  about both of these two events. Before I speak about the issues related to the  year 1393, I would like to discuss these two points.
The first point is about elections. You dear brothers and  sisters should pay attention that the people's turnout in the elections has not  decreased from the beginning of the Revolution until today. This is very  important. In the last elections  that is to say, the eleventh presidential  elections  72 percent of the people went to the ballot boxes. This is a high  figure among the elections which are held throughout the world and this is an  outstanding turnout. This is one of the highest figures in the elections which  have been held from the beginning of the Revolution until today.
What does this mean? The meaning of this great participation  of the people in the elections is that religious democracy has been firmly  established in the country. It means that the Islamic Republic has managed to  establish democracy in the country. This is not a minor achievement.
A country that witnessed different oppressive and  dictatorial rulers over the course of many centuries has gained such a  familiarity and has formed such a strong bond with democracy and participation  in electing the owners of power that 72 percent of the people participate in  the elections even after the passage of 35 years from the excitements of the  early revolutionary era. This should be appreciated.
I would tell you youth and all the intellectuals throughout  the country that we should not show ingratitude towards this great blessing the  way some people showed ingratitude towards this divine blessing in the year  1388. Also, if some people say that the elections in the country are unhealthy   this means echoing what the enemy says  this is another case of ingratitude.
Democracy in the country has turned into a standard process.  This is why the people throughout the country  in villages and cities   consider themselves to be responsible towards ballot boxes. This is why they go  to ballot boxes and this is why 72 percent of the people vote. This is a very  important issue. This is a high figure in the elections that are held  throughout the world.
The second point that my dear brothers and sisters should  pay attention to is about the rallies on the 22nd of Bahman. There  are certain people who calculate or make a guess  with different cameras and  other devices - the number of participants in these rallies. This year, all  those people who have been active in these areas and all those people who  carefully observed these rallies reported to us that the number of participants  in Tehran and other big and well-known cities was even larger than previous  years. They reported that the rallies were even more enthusiastic than previous  years. That is to say, the people's slogans were meaningful and exciting.
Why did they participate in such large numbers? The analysts  who analyze different issues came to the conclusion  in our opinion, their  conclusion is correct  that the tone of influential elements among the  policymakers of arrogance was more impolite and more insulting this year. This  was the reason for the great participation of the people in the rallies. After  the nuclear negotiations were conducted, American politicians said, It is  clear that the people of Iran have changed their mind about their slogans and  their principles. They spoke to the people of Iran in an impolite and  insulting tone.
The people heard what they said. They became aware of their  statements. When the enemy enters the arena with his real or close-to-real  face, the people become more motivated and more determined to enter the arena.  Because the people saw that the Americans speak in an impolite manner to them  and that they accuse them of separating from the Islamic Republic, they wanted  to show on the 22nd of Bahman that they are attached - with all their heart -  to the Islamic government, the Islamic Republic and the hoisted flag of Islam.
This signifies the sensitivity and commitment of our people  in the face of the enmity and malevolence of the enemies of the Islamic  Republic and the enemies of Iran. This was the point about the rallies on the  22nd of Bahman.
As for the issues  which are related to this year, I have written down certain points. I have  certain things to say and by Allah's favor, I try to briefly discuss what I  have in mind during the time that we have. Today is Friday and our time is  limited because we should say Friday prayers at the end. But even if some  things are left unsaid, I hope that they will be reflected in the statements of  experts and those wise personalities who understand what the policies of the  Islamic Republic are and what is being done. They should reflect them in their  statements so that these issues become clear to public opinion.
The core point of  the speech that I want to deliver today is that the people of Iran should  strengthen themselves. This is what I want to say. The issue is about national  power. I would tell our dear people that if a people are not strong and if they  are weak, they will be bullied. If a people are not strong, global blackmailers  will blackmail and extort them. If these blackmailers can, they will trample  upon them. This is the nature of a world which is managed by materialistic  thoughts. Whoever feels powerful, bullies those people  whether individuals or  nations - whom he considers to be weak.
A well-known poet  says, Death is natural for the weak. Any strong person becomes weak first and  then he dies. There is a story which says, A fried chicken was brought to a  person who did not eat chicken or any other kind of meat. He looked at it and  cried tears of sorrow. Addressing the chicken in front of him, he said, 'Which  angry lion could you not escape from so that no one can bring you to the  slaughterhouse? If you could have defended yourself and if you had had power  inside you, they would not have dared to cut off your head in this way'.
I believe neither  in this poet nor in Abul Ala Al-Maari who recounted this story. But I believe  that death is natural for the weak in a world which is managed by materialistic  thoughts. I believe in this. If a people do not collect and strengthen  themselves, they will be bullied.
There are a number  of nations who are a long way away from becoming strong. They have no hope of  gaining the power to confront bullies and global thugs. But this is not the  case with our people. First, we have a great talent to strengthen ourselves and  we have many resources and capacities. Our people have moved towards national  power and they have traveled a long distance on this path.
For this reason, I  find the general roadmap for the year 1393 in the two elements which I pointed  out in this year's new year message: economy and culture with national  determination and jihadi management.
Military weapons  are not the only factor which plays a role in helping a people strengthen  themselves. Of course, weapons are necessary, but no people can become strong  only with weapons. When I think about this issue, I find three elements, two of  which are what I pointed out in the Norouz message. If these three elements  receive attention, any people can become strong. One is economy, another is  culture and the third is knowledge.
Many things have  been said about knowledge during the past 12 years. Thankfully, what was said  was effective. Today, we are moving forward in the area of knowledge. Later on,  I may bring up the issue of knowledge again. But we need an extraordinary  effort in the area of economy and culture in order to develop the economy of  the country in a way that no one on the other side of the world can influence  our economy and the living conditions of our people with one single decision  and with one single meeting. This is in our own hands. It is we who should do  this. This means the economy of resistance whose policies were formulated in  the month of Esfand.
I myself had a  meeting with the officials and outstanding managers of the country. We spoke at  length about this issue and they responded positively. That is to say, the  officials of the three branches of government  who played a role and who  participated in formulating the policies on the economy of resistance   welcomed these policies and said that they would follow up this matter. Today,  I would like to speak a little to our dear people about the economy of  resistance so that the people hear my viewpoints on this issue from this humble  person himself.
The economy of resistance means the kind of economy which is  resistant and which is not strongly influenced by global fluctuations and by  the policies of America and other countries. It is an economy which is reliant  on people.
There are three questions about the economy of resistance  which is, in fact, a resistant economy. I would like to pose these three  questions. The first question is: what is and what is not the economy of  resistance? What are its positive and its negative characteristics? The second  question is: Is the economy of resistance, whose slogans we are chanting,  achievable and possible or is it a pure illusion? And the third question is: if  it is possible to achieve the economy of resistance, what are its requirements?  What should be done to achieve this economy? Today, I answer these three  questions. This is related to the economy. After discussing this issue, I will  raise certain points about the issue of culture which I believe to be a very  important issue.
The first question  is: what is and what is not the economy of resistance? Primarily, it is an  appropriate and knowledge-based paradigm which is in line with the needs of our  country. This is the positive aspect of this paradigm. But this paradigm is not  particular to our country. Today, many countries have thought of this   according to their own specific conditions  considering the social and  economic fluctuations which have occurred during the past 20 years. So, the  first issue is that other countries too are after the movement which we are  launching and that it is not particular to us.
The second point is  that, as we said, this economy grows from the inside. What does this mean? It  means that it originates from the capacities of our own country and our own  people. The growth of this seed and this tree is reliant on the resources of  our own country. This is the meaning of growing from the inside.
But at the same it,  it is not introverted. That is to say, the economy of resistance does not mean  that we should build a wall around our economy and that we should confine it to  domestic areas. This is not what we mean by the economy of resistance. It grows  from the inside, but it is extroverted. It interacts with global economies and  it has powerful relations with the economies of other countries. Therefore, it  grows from the inside, but it is not introverted.
The reason why I am  saying is that many malevolent pens, tongues and brains - who are active in all  areas - are trying to promote the idea that the officials of the Islamic  Republic want to limit the economy of the country and confine it to domestic  areas. They are carrying out different analyses in order to separate the people  and officials from this path, which is the path of happiness. I am saying these  things so that it becomes clear to public opinion inside the country what their  intentions are.
The third point is  that what has been introduced as the economy of resistance is based on the  people. It does not pivot around the government. That is to say, it is not  governmental economy. Rather, it is a popular economy, one that is achieved  with the determination, resources and presence of the people. But the fact that  it is not governmental does not mean the administration does not have any  responsibility towards it. This is not the case.
The administration  is responsible for making plans, preparing the ground, developing capacities  and offering guidance and assistance. Economic tasks and activities are in the  hands of the people and they belong to the people, but the administration  engages in supervision, guidance and assistance as a public stakeholder. It  prevents those people who want to take advantage of the situation and engage in  economic corruption. It helps those people who need help. Therefore, preparing  the ground and facilitating tasks are the responsibilities of the  administration.
The fourth point is  that, as we said, this economy is a knowledge-based economy. It utilizes and relies  on scientific achievements and it makes knowledge the pivot of economy. But  this does not mean that the economy of resistance is particular to scientists  and scholars and that it is only they who can play a role in the economy of  resistance. This is not what the economy of resistance means.
Experiences and  skills  the experiences of the owners of industries and the skills of those  laborers who are experienced and competent  can be effective and they can play  a part in this economy. When it is said that the economy of resistance is  knowledge-based, this does not mean that those experienced, industrial and  agricultural personalities who have accomplished great feats over the course of  many years should not play any part. This is not the case. They have a very  important role in this regard.
The fifth point is  that this economy is justice-based. The standards of the capitalist economy  such as national growth and gross national production are not the only  standards that it relies on. In this economy, the issue is not only about the  rate of national growth and gross national production. These are things which  global standards and capitalist economies pivot around. A country may have a  high GNP, but some people inside this country may die of hunger. We do not  believe in such an economy.
Therefore, the  standard of justice  economic and social justice  is one of the important  standards in the economy of resistance. But it does not mean that we should  show indifference to the existing knowledge-based standards in the world. The  economy of resistance does not mean that we should do this. These standards  receive attention as well, but the task pivots around justice. Justice on this  issue and in this paradigm does not mean the division of poverty among people.  Rather, it means generating capital and increasing national wealth.
The sixth point is:  there is no doubt that the economy of resistance is the best solution for  solving the economic problems of the country. But this does not mean that it is  confined to the problems which exist today. It is not the case that part of the  economy of resistance results from sanctions and part of it results from, say,  the ineffectiveness of such and such a plan. This economy is permanent. The  economy of resistance means making the economy resistant and strengthening its  bases. Such an economy will be fertile and it will help the people whether  during the time of economic sanctions or during any other time. This was the  answer to the first question.
The second question  was: is the economic plan that we call the economy of resistance a mere  illusion and wish or is it achievable? The answer is that it is completely  achievable. Why? It is because of the capacities of this country. It is because  this country has extraordinary capacities. I would like to mention a number of  the capacities of the country. These are capacities which do not need  complicated statistics. They are in front of the eyes of everyone. Everyone  sees these capacities.
One of the  important capacities of our country is manpower. Manpower is one of our  greatest capacities and it is a great opportunity. As I said before, the youth  of the country  whose age range is 15-30 years  form a large percentage of  the population of the country. This is a capacity. We have ten million  university graduates. Ten million of our youth have graduated during these  years. In the present time, we have more than four million students who will  graduate in a few years. The dear youth should know that this is 25 times more  than the number of students in the late taghuti era. The population of the  country has doubled compared to that era, but the number of students has  increased by 25 times. Today, we have this number of students and graduates.
Besides, we have  millions of experienced and skilled forces. Notice that these were the forces  which came to the help of our Armed Forces during the time of war. During the  time of the imposed war, one of our problems was the breakdown of our machines,  the bombardment of our different centers, the poverty of our Armed Forces  because of a lack of necessary equipment such as different means of  transportation and the like.
A group of  industrialists and a number of skilled and experienced individuals went from  Tehran and other cities to the arena of war. I myself witnessed this in the  beginning of the war and I used to see these individuals up close. Thankfully,  I had the opportunity to meet them recently. A group of them came to see me. At  that time, they were young, but now they have reached an old age although they  still have the same motivation and enthusiasm. They went to the front lines and  some of them were martyred.
In the war, they  carried out repairs and engaged in industrial construction. The astonishing  bridges which proved valuable to our Armed Forces during the war were built by  these experienced and skilled forces. It was these individuals who engaged in  many other constructions such as vehicles, roads and the like.
Today, there are  such people as well. Thankfully, there are not a few such personalities.  Although they are not well-educated, in certain cases, the experiences and  skills that they have are more  in number  better and more valuable than  well-educated individuals. This is one of the capacities of our manpower. We  have such manpower both in the area of agriculture and in the area of  industry.
One of the  important capacities of our country is its natural resources. Last year, I said  in the same meeting that our country has the highest amount of oil and gas  combined. That is to say, there is no country in the world which has as much  oil and gas  combined  as we do. The sum of our oil and gas is more than all  the countries in the world including countries in the east and in the west.
At this point that  I am speaking to you, certain discoveries have been made about gas which show  our gas supplies have increased compared to the gas supplies that we had last  year. This is our condition in the area of oil and gas. This means that the  most supplies of energy exist in our country. The entire world is dependent on  energy for its light, its heat, its industries and its progress. That is to  say, the entire world is dependent on oil and gas.
Besides, throughout  the country, there are many gold mines and mines which contain rare metals.  There are iron ores, precious stones and different kinds of essential and  fundamental metals  which are considered to be the mother of industries  in  the country. This is another great capacity.
Another capacity is our geographical location. We have 15  neighbors which we have business interactions with. Transit networks are one of  the great opportunities for all countries. We benefit from this opportunity as  well. In the south, these networks are connected to international waters and in  the north, they are connected to territorial waters. In our neighboring  countries, about 370 million people live. This number of interactions and this  number of neighbors is a great opportunity for the economic blossoming of a  country. As well as this opportunity, we benefit from a domestic market. We  have a 75-million market which is important for any economy.
Another capacity  which exists in the country is software and hardware infrastructures. The  policies on the Article 44 of the Constitution, the strategic plan, the  measures which have been carried out during the recent years and the various  infrastructures such as roads, dams, bridges, factories and the like are  examples of infrastructures. These are very good areas for the economic  progress of the country. These are the capacities of a country.
Well, someone may  say, If sanctions did not exist, you could utilize these capacities in the  right way. But you cannot utilize them because of sanctions. This is wrong.  This is an inaccurate statement. Despite sanctions, we have managed to make  outstanding and lofty achievements in many areas. One example is production of  knowledge. Another example is our achievements in the area of industry and  technology.
We were and still  are under sanctions in these areas. In the present time too, the doors of  important and up-to-date scientific centers - which work on advanced and modern  sciences - are closed to Iranian scientists and students. But we have managed  to make progress in the nuclear area and in the area of nanotechnology, stem  cells, defense industries, airplanes and missiles- to the despair of the enemy.  Why should we not be able to make progress in the area of economy?
We - who have made  so many achievements on these scenes and in different arenas  can make the  economy blossom if we show determination and join hands. We should not pin our  hopes on the enemy to see when he lifts sanctions and when he agrees to something.  Damn the enemy! We should see what we ourselves can do.
Now, I want to pose  and answer the third question. The third question was: what are the  requirements of achieving this great task, the economy of resistance? What  should be done in this regard? I would tell you in brief that primarily,  officials should support national production. National production is the basis  and the main link in the chain of the progress of the economy.
Officials should  support national production. How should they do this? Wherever there is a need  for a certain law, they should provide legal support. Wherever there is a need  for judicial support, they should provide it. Wherever there is a need for  executive support, they should fulfill it. They should provide encouragement  and adopt certain measures. These tasks should be carried out and national  production should be boosted.
The second point in  this regard is about investors and laborers who are, in fact, the producers of  the country. They should pay attention to national production as well. What  does this mean? It means that they should increase the output. Increasing the  output means making maximum use of the existing resources.
Laborers should  carry out the task in hand in a careful way. God's mercy be upon those who  carry out the task in a proper and firm way. This is the meaning of increasing  the output. The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) has been quoted as saying, God's mercy  be upon those who carry out the task in a proper and firm way. Those who make  an investment should try to make maximum use of it. That is to say, they should  reduce the cost of production. Some of the wrong measures and policies push up  the cost of production and decrease the output of investment and the task in  hand.
The third point is  that the owners of capital in the country should prefer productive activities  to other ones. We have seen a number of people who had some capital  small or  large  and who could have invested it in certain businesses to earn a lot of  money, but who did not. Instead, they turned to production. They said, We want  to boost the production of the country. This is a good deed and a charitable  act. This is one of the best tasks. Those who have capital  whether small or  large  should use it at the service of the production of the country.
The next point is  that the people at all levels should promote national production. What does  this mean? It means what I emphatically discussed two, three years ago in this  meeting. Fortunately, a group of people acted on my advice. But everyone should  act on it. The piece of advice that I offered was that we should consume  domestic products. My dear ones, when you buy domestic goods instead of foreign  ones, you are - in fact - creating employment and making Iranian laborers bring  their innovative capabilities to the arena.
When domestic  products are consumed, producers increase the innovative ideas that they have  on a daily basis. When you consume domestic products, you are, in fact,  increasing national wealth. In the past  during the time of taghut   preferring foreign products was a tradition. Whenever they wanted to buy something,  they used to ask, Is it foreign or domestic? if it was foreign, they would  like to buy it.
This should change.  We should do the opposite. I am not saying that buying foreign products is  haraam. What I am saying is that buying domestic products is a necessity for  making the economy resistant. This affects everything in this country. It should  receive attention and this is the role of all the people.
Of course, like  many other issues, the responsibility of the officials and managers of the  country is more than other people on this issue too. Many extravagant and  excessive actions in the behavior of the people result from copying the  behavior of those people who are considered to be seniors. If extravagance does  not exist at high levels, the people live a less extravagant life as well.  Therefore, preferring domestic products is one of the tasks.
Let us reach a  conclusion and get this part finished. I would tell you that the economy of  resistance, which means making the bases of the economy resistant, is one of  our public responsibilities in the present time. Everyone can play a part in it  including the officials in the three branches of government, all the people,  those who are skilled at doing something, those who have capital and experts.  What we discussed was a summary of what should be said. It is the  responsibility of experts to expand on this issue.
The second part of  my speech is about culture. My dear ones, I would tell you in one sentence that  culture is even more important than economy. Why? It is because culture is like  the air we breathe. You have to  breathe air, whether you like it or not. If this air is clean, it will have  certain effects on your body. If it is dirty, it will have certain other  effects. The culture of a country is like the air that we breathe. If it is  good, it will have certain effects.
We were just speaking  about consuming domestic products. If we want the consumption of domestic  products to be firmly established in the real sense of the word, we should  instill the culture of consuming domestic products into the minds of the  people. If we want the people to avoid extravagance, we should do something to  make the people believe in this.
This means culture.  Culture means people's beliefs, faith, customs and those things which people  deal with in their daily lives and which are a source of inspiration for them  in their moves and in their actions. Culture is this. Therefore, it has great  significance. For example, in social areas, the spirit of observing the law  should be promoted among the people so that they respect the law. This is a  culture. Social cooperation is a culture. Starting a family and getting married  is a culture. The number of children is a culture.
If the people adopt  a proper outlook and orientation on such issues, life in society will be of a  certain kind. If, God forbid, they adopt a wrong orientation, life in society  will be of a certain other kind. If this happens, we will  God forbid  face  the same disaster that those countries which destroyed the family and its  foundation and which promoted decadence face today. But there came after them  an evil generation, who neglected prayers and who followed sensual desires, so  they shall meet perdition [The Holy Quran, 19: 59].
The enemies focus  on culture more than anything else. Why? It is because of the great influence  of culture. The target of the cultural moves of the enemies is the people's  faith and beliefs. The officials in charge of cultural affairs should take care  of cultural rifts. Cultural rifts are very dangerous. They should be sensitive  about these rifts and they should be vigilant.
I do not want to  say that foreigners are responsible for all cultural detriments. This is not  what I am saying. We ourselves are to blame as well. The behavior of different  officials  both officials in charge of cultural affairs and officials in charge  of other affairs  laziness and wrong measures in different areas have played a  role in this regard as well.
So, we do not want  to pin all the blame on the enemy. But we cannot forget about the presence of  the enemy in cultural areas either. From the early days of the Revolution until  today, propaganda networks have been doing their best to make the people lose  belief in the bases of the Revolution. Is this a cultural activity? They  attacked the people's faith and their heartfelt beliefs. This cannot be  ignored.
A question may be asked in this regard. Well, someone may  ask, You are saying that the officials of the country should be sensitive. How  sensitive should they be? Does this not contradict freedom which is one of the  slogans of the Revolution and one of the bases of the Islamic Republic? The  answer is no. It does not contradict freedom at all.
Freedom is different from decadence. Freedom is different  from forgetting about all rules and regulations. Freedom, which is a great  divine blessing, has certain rules and regulations. Without rules, freedom is  meaningless. If there are some people in the country who are trying to take  away youth's faith, we cannot stand aside and watch this just because this is  freedom. Similarly, if someone wants to distribute heroin and other such  poisonous substances  which destroy families  we cannot be indifferent. If we  witness that some people want to make the people deviate from their path,  target their faith and create a rift in the Islamic and revolutionary culture  of the people by using art, money and different discourses and means, we cannot  watch this and say that this is freedom.
Such a freedom does not exist anywhere in the world. It does  not exist anywhere in the world. Those countries that claim to support freedom  have certain red lines about which they are very strict. Notice that no one in  European countries dares to speak about holocaust while it is not clear whether  the core of this matter is a reality or not. Even if it is a reality, it is not  clear how it happened. Speaking about holocaust and expressing doubts about it  is considered to be a great sin. If someone does this, they stop, arrest,  imprison and sue him. This is while they claim to be the supporters of freedom.
The enemies stick to what is considered to be a red line for  them with all their power. So, how do they expect us to ignore the ideological  and revolutionary red lines of our country and our youth? If there is someone  who targets the spirit of national independence, who wants to theoretically  justify dependence, who ridicules independence and who discourages youth from  living an independent life, we cannot be indifferent towards them. We should  react to what they do.
In the present time, there are some people who ridicule  independence when it is brought up. They say, It is backwardness. What is  independence? Such people insult the moral and religious necessities of  society, they ridicule the Persian language and they humiliate Iranian  customs.
Such things exist.  These things exist in the present time. There are some people who try to humiliate  the spirit of the national dignity of Iranian youth. They constantly promote  negative outlooks. They say, Learn from the Europeans, learn from westerners.  They tolerate one another while we do not. Is this really the truth of the  matter? On the streets of European countries and European capitals, a woman who  observes hijab to some degree is attacked by youth. In front of the eyes of the  people, they beat or kill this woman who has observed her hijab and no one  dares to ask why.
This is happening  in the present time. It did not happen 20, 50 years ago. In front of the eyes  of the people, they burn someone with the excuse that they are not a native. Is  this tolerating opposing views? This is what happened recently. A few months  ago, one of the thuggish youth in a European city began to beat an Iranian  individual. Then, he poured petrol over him and burned him. This was while  neighbors stood aside and watched it with indifference. They did not show any  reaction. Is this tolerating opposing views?
We cannot adopt an  indifferent outlook towards those people who humiliate the people of Iran,  Iranian nationality and Iranian customs, who weaken Islamic principles in the  minds of the people, who seriously target the main slogans of the Revolution,  who portray the foundation of the family as worthless and who pretend that marriage  is meaningless  these things exist in our society today and some people are  doing such things  who consider hedonism to be an ideal and a value and who  promote such ideas.
Intemperance  hedonism  [speaking in Arabic]  is a western souvenir. They promote whatever brings  pleasure. Well, one person derives pleasure from addiction, another person  derives pleasure from sexual desires and another derives it from beating  people. They allow whatever is a source of pleasure.
Some people promote  self-indulgence and boundless freedom. Our organizations should feel  responsible in the face of such people. What cultural vandals do is that they  raise doubt among the people instead of promoting firm national determination.  As long as a people do not have firm determination, they get nowhere. They are  trying to take away the people's firm determination in those important areas  which are related to the fate of the country. They are trying to make the  people doubt their firm determination. They are trying to inject into them the  feeling of national humiliation instead of the feeling of national dignity and  self-confidence. They want to inject into them doubt and atheism instead of  firm faith. They want to inject into them hedonism, decadence and the like  instead of hard work, diligence and great determination.
The official  organizations of the country - those which are in charge of cultural affairs -  should carry out their responsibilities in the face of these people. Of course,  some responsibilities are offensive responsibilities and some are defensive  responsibilities. Both kinds of responsibilities should be carried out. Both  offensive and defensive responsibilities should be carried out.
The promotional  organizations of our country  whether those which are directly affiliated with  the administration or those which are indirectly affiliated with it  should not  fear the uproar of foreign networks or those networks which use the discourse  of foreigners. They should not coordinate their behavior with such networks.  This was related to the official organizations in charge of cultural affairs.
But the more  important part of my speech is addressed to those youth who carry out cultural  activities throughout the country in a voluntary way. Thankfully, these  activities are very wide in scope. What I want to say is that those youth who  do cultural work in Tehran, in different cities  including Mashhad and other  cities  and in different provinces with their determination and motivation  should follow up and continue the task as seriously as they can. They have  carried out good tasks, some of which we have thankfully been informed of.
They should know  that the development of cultural tasks among religious and revolutionary youth  has played a great role in the progress of this country and in our resistance  against the enemies of the people of Iran. Cultural experts have a  responsibility in this regard as well. Who are cultural experts? Cultural  experts include ulama, professors, revolutionary intellectuals and committed  artists. They should preserve their critical outlook towards the cultural  conditions of the country and they should provide guidance.
Of course, I  believe that such guidance should be provided by giving compelling reasons and  offering tangible explanations and good opinions. I do not agree with  slandering and creating uproar. I do not agree with saying takfiri things and  accusing different people. I believe that the revolutionary community of the  country  thankfully, many revolutionary individuals are from among our youth,  our experts, our professors and our great and educated personalities  can  enter the arena and make criticisms with compelling logic.
They can show weak  and negative points to us officials of the country. Sometimes, an official does  not know what is happening in society, but such young critics are in the center  of society. They know what is happening. This is the national determination and  the jihadi management that we discussed in the area of culture.
At the end of my  speech, I would like to discuss one point with you people of Iran: you should  know that global events do not move forward according to the wishes and  intentions of America. What global arrogance and the hostile enemies of the  people of Iran wanted to achieve in the international arena  which is very  wide in scope  has not been achieved and by Allah's favor, it will not be  achieved in the future. America has failed in Palestine. The plot that they  hatched for Palestine and that they tried very hard to implement has failed and  by Allah's favor, it will fail in the future as well.
The enemies want to  turn Palestine into a Jewish country. That is to say, they want to do something  to prevent the Palestinians  whether Muslims or Christians  from living in  Palestine. In other words, they want to finish Palestine off. They have  followed up this plot. They have tried very hard during the recent years, but  they have failed. America did not achieve any results in Palestine. It did not  achieve any results in Syria. It did not achieve any results in Iraq. The goals  that it had in Afghanistan and Pakistan were not achieved. As you see and hear,  the Americans' plots in Europe have been foiled as well.
We should know that  they could not achieve any results in our dear country either, even after 30  years of effort against the Revolution and our revolutionary people. A sign of  this is the presence of the people. Influential figures in the government of  America said openly, We have imposed and reinforced sanctions so that we can  draw the people to the streets. They openly said that the purpose of sanctions  is to uproot the Revolution and to pit the people against the Islamic Republic.
What was the  result? The result was what I pointed out in this meeting. In the year 1392, an  election was held whose turnout was very high and in which the people participated  in a very active way. And on the 22nd of Bahman, a rally was held  which was larger, greater and more enthusiastic than any annual rally in the  past.
This is the point  that I have repeated many times: You dear youth should know that the future  belongs to you. By Allah's favor, your enemies are condemned to failure.
I hope that Allah  the Exalted will guide you towards the paths of happiness with His blessings. I  hope that He will make the holy heart of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be  sacrificed for his sake) satisfied and pleased with us.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
