
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech on the Economy of Resistance in Meeting with Officials and Business Communit"/>
I would like to welcome all the dear brothers and sisters and I thank
 you for accepting this invitation and participating in this meeting. By
 Allah's favor, your participation in this cooperative environment will 
help us do something for the progress of the country and take a step 
forward in order to achieve the lofty ideals of the country.
The purpose of asking you dear brothers and sisters to take the 
trouble to attend this meeting is to discuss policies on the economy of 
resistance - which have been formulated and announced recently - so that
 we can illustrate and highlight the requirements of these policies and 
so that we can identify the responsibilities which these important and 
fundamental policies entrust all of us with. 
Before these policies, many other different policies were introduced 
in economic areas such as the policy on energy, the policy on national 
production, the policy on the Article 44 of the Constitution, the policy
 on investment security, policies on water and many other policies. In 
those policies, the focus was on illustrating a roadmap. That is to say,
 we wanted to illustrate a roadmap - for example on the issue of 
national production, water, energy and other such issues - so that 
officials could carry out their responsibilities on the basis of this 
roadmap. But in these policies, the issue is not only illustrating a 
roadmap, but also setting the standards for taking the path in the right
 way. 
The policies on the economy of resistance are exactly like traffic 
signs. Certain responsibilities have been specified in the different 
articles of these policies. In fact, these responsibilities guarantee 
that the path will be taken in the right way. These policies - which are
 comprehensive and general - have laid down certain criteria for all 
sectors. The tasks which should be carried out are clear if we study the
 different articles of these policies. 
The policies on the economy of resistance are in fact, a domestic and
 research-based paradigm which originates in our revolutionary and 
Islamic culture. They are compatible with our conditions in the present 
and in the future. 
Later on I will explain that these policies are not particular to the
 present conditions of the country. These policies are long-term 
measures for the economy of the country. They can help the Islamic 
Republic achieve its goals in the area of economics and they can solve 
problems. Besides, they are flexible and dynamic as well. That is to 
say, we have not formulated these policies in a strict and inflexible 
way. They can be completed and improved in line with the different 
conditions which may arise in any period of time. These policies will 
practically bring about flexibility in the economy of the country. They 
will prevent the economy from falling apart in the face of different 
fluctuations, which I will refer to later on. 
This paradigm has been prepared with the effort and cooperation of 
experts in the Expediency Council and in the presence of the heads of 
the three branches of government and the officials of the country. We 
have completely benefitted from the assistance of economic experts for 
developing this paradigm. In fact, one of the advantages of this 
paradigm is that it has been developed through consultation. That is to 
say, the different aspects of this paradigm have been completely 
analyzed and studied in the Expediency Council. The heads of the three 
branches of government are present in the Expediency Council. The same 
is true of different officials. They have held certain discussions. This
 is a well-considered and well-developed task. 
Interest in an economy of resistance is not particular to us. Today -
 especially in recent years - many countries have decided to make their 
economy resistant because of the economic fluctuations which have 
occurred in the world. 
Of course, any country has its own specific conditions. The problems 
arising from capitalism spread from the west and America to many 
countries. In general, the global economy is an interconnected entity. 
Naturally, many countries were more or less influenced by these 
problems. This was why many countries decided to make their economy 
resistant. In other words, they wanted to create an economy of 
resistance which was best suited for their countries. 
In my opinion, we need an economy of resistance more than other 
countries do. We need to make our economy resistant more than other 
countries do. This is because first, we are connected with the global 
economy due to the same factors which we share with other countries. We 
want to preserve this connection. We do not at all want to separate and 
step away from the global economy. We cannot have this intention 
particularly in the present conditions. So, we are influenced by what 
happens in the global economy. 
Second, we need an economy of resistance because of the 
characteristics that we have. We are attacked by others and we are 
subject to malevolence because of our independence, our dignity and our 
persistence in preventing ourselves from being influenced by the 
policies of global powers. As you can see in the present time, the 
motives, obstacles and problems which are directed against us are many 
more than those which directed against any other country. Therefore, we 
should show more diligence in order to strengthen the bases of our 
economy and make it resistant. We should not allow different events, 
inevitable fluctuations and malevolent plots to influence our economy. 
We should not allow these conditions to arise. Therefore, we need an 
economy of resistance. 
I would like to discuss a brief list of the characteristics of the 
economy of resistance. I have divided my statements into three parts: 
the first part is about this list. The second part is about why we 
consider the economy of resistance to be a necessity today and why we 
should pursue it and the third part is about the obligations which we 
should be committed to. 
For the first part, I have written down 10 characteristics of the 
policies on the economy of resistance which are in fact factors playing a
 role in this issue. One factor is the issue of creating dynamism in the
 economy of the country and improving the major standards such as 
achieving economic growth, promoting national production, creating 
employment, reducing inflation, increasing production and improving 
public welfare. The policies on the economy of resistance have been 
formulated with the purpose of creating dynamism in the economy of the 
country and improving these standards.
A standard which is more important than all these standards is the 
key and fundamental standard of social justice. We do not at all believe
 in improving the economy of the country without achieving social 
justice. There are a number of countries whose standards are very good 
and desirable. For example, their economic growth is at a high level. 
However, discrimination, social class inequalities and lack of justice 
are visible in these countries. We do not at all consider this to be 
compatible with the goal of Islam and the Islamic Republic. Therefore, 
one of our most important standards is the standard of social justice. 
Underprivileged classes should benefit from the progress of the 
country's economy in the real sense of the word. This is the first 
factor. 
The second factor is resistance against threatening elements. This 
has been considered in these policies. As I said, one of the factors 
which influences the economy of countries is economic fluctuations in 
the world such as the one which occurred in recent years and those which
 occurred in previous decades. Such fluctuations influence countries.
Once, I spoke about my meeting with the leader of one of the 
countries in southeast -Asia during a time when the world experienced 
that astonishing setback. He said to me, "You should know that we 
changed overnight, from being a rich country to being a poor one." A 
weak economy is like this. Therefore, one factor that influences 
economies is the different economic fluctuations which flow into all 
countries. 
Other factors include natural disasters and hostile moves such as 
sanctions and the like. Imagine that decision-making centers in the 
world decide to lower the price of oil to say, six dollars. This is what
 happened to us as well. Many such events are not ordinary and they are 
not predictable. But they play a significant role and they occur because
 of the clear decisions which are made by a number of centers. 
Therefore, the second factor is showing the capability to resist 
threatening elements the way I explained. 
The third factor is reliance on domestic capacities. This has been 
specified in these polices as well. Later on, I will provide a brief 
explanation about these capacities. They include scientific, human, 
natural, financial, geographical and other domestic capacities. We have 
important capacities. In the policies on the economy of resistance, the 
main focus is on domestic capacities, which are very broad in scope. 
This does not mean that we should close our eyes to resources outside
 the country. This is not what I mean. We will certainly benefit from 
these resources and we will make maximum use of them. However, our focus
 and our reliance is on domestic issues. Our trust is in domestic 
matters. Our main focus is on domestic capacities and resources inside 
the country. 
The fourth factor is adopting a jihadi outlook which has been 
considered in these policies. We should promote jihadi determination and
 jihadi management. We cannot move forward with ordinary moves. Great 
tasks cannot be carried out with ordinary, careless and insensitive 
moves. We need a jihadi determination, dynamism and management in order 
to carry out these tasks. 
The move that is made in this regard should be scientific, powerful, 
well-organized and jihadi. I discussed this issue in the meeting that I 
had with the honorable heads of the three branches of government in 
previous weeks. Fortunately, Mr. President confidently said to me that 
the administration would follow up these tasks and that their decisions 
would be based on these serious and jihadi moves. Well, this is very 
good and necessary. Without this, we cannot move forward. 
The fifth factor is making the people the pivot. This has been 
specified in these policies as well. Experience shows us and Islamic 
hadiths and teachings stress that whenever the people enter the arena, 
God's hands are with them: "God's hands are with people" [Nahjul 
Balaghah, Sermon 127]. Wherever the people exist, divine blessings, 
assistance and support exist as well. 
A sign and example of this is the eight-year Sacred Defense. Other 
examples include the victory of the Revolution and passing through the 
difficult precipices during the past 35 years. Because the people were 
in the arena, tasks were carried out. We have paid less attention to 
this issue in economic areas.
This was the reason why we passed and announced the policies on the 
Article 44 of the Constitution. Of course, these policies were not 
implemented the way they should have. In those years, I spoke to 
officials about the policies on the Article 44 of the Constitution. 
Everyone agreed with what I said and certain things were done in 
practice for which we should be thankful. However, these policies were 
not implemented the way they should have been.
We should rely on the people and we should attach significance to 
them. The people should enter the middle of the economic arena with 
their resources. Economic activists, entrepreneurs, innovators, 
competent individuals, investors and the countless forces which exist in
 the country should be able to enter the arena. 
These forces are really countless. It is many years now that I have 
been interacting with people from different social backgrounds. 
Sometimes, we come across certain things and we realize that we have 
ignored them. There are so many individuals in the country who are ready
 to work, who are skillful, innovative and knowledgeable and who have 
capital. These individuals are thirsty for working. 
The administration should prepare the ground for them to work. It 
should show them where they can utilize their capabilities and it should
 support them. This is the main responsibility of the administration. Of
 course, the administration has to be active in certain economic areas, 
but the people should be given the opportunity to pursue economic 
activities as well. This has been specified in the policies on the 
economy of resistance. 
The sixth factor is providing security for strategic and fundamental 
goods. Primarily, this security should be provided for food and 
medicine. The domestic production of the country should be shaped in a 
way that the country will never face any problem in the area of food and
 medicine. This is one of the main factors in the policies that have 
been announced. We should be self-reliant. Those areas which bring about
 this self-reliance should receive attention. 
The seventh factor is reducing the country's dependence on oil. One 
of our most serious losses is dependence on oil. This great and 
God-given blessing has become a source of economic and political 
collapse over the course of tens of years. We should find a fundamental 
solution for this. I am not saying that oil should not be used. Rather, I
 am saying that we should reduce our dependence on selling crude oil as 
much as we can. We can benefit from oil in the form of products. This 
has also been specified in these policies. One of the important and 
fundamental tasks that should be carried out is this. It requires lofty 
determination. We have specified this in Article 13 of these policies 
and this article should really be put into practice. 
The eighth factor is the issue of reforming the norms of consumption,
 economizing and avoiding extravagance and unnecessary expenses. Of 
course, this is primarily addressed to officials. The officials should 
seriously avoid extravagance not only in their personal lives - which is
 of secondary importance - but also in their managerial sectors. This is
 of primary importance. If this happens - that is to say, if we 
officials of the country are committed to this principle - then this 
spirit, this characteristic and this behavior will be promoted among the
 people. 
Today, we witness that the people and those who are well-to-do have 
an extravagant lifestyle. This extravagance exists in many cases. I 
would like to address this issue to the people as well. But this is one 
of the issues which is the manifestation of this hadith: "Invite people 
to religion with means other than your tongues" [Bihar al-Anwar, Volume 
67, page 309]. All the officials of the country should pay attention to 
this issue in their managerial sectors. There should not be any 
extravagance. The norms of consumption should be norms which are 
reasonable, sensible and Islamic. 
We are not saying to the people that they should lead an ascetic 
lifestyle. This is an idea that some people promote. After the policies 
on the economy of resistance were formulated, some people began to say, 
"They are inviting the people to lead an ascetic lifestyle". They said 
this even before these policies were implemented. But this is not what 
we want. Rather, it is the opposite of our intentions. 
We believe that if the policies on the economy of resistance are 
implemented, the people will have better conditions and the problems of 
underprivileged classes will be solved. People can have a comfortable 
and prosperous life in a country where inflation is at an acceptable 
level and where employment is at a high level. We are not at all saying 
that the people should lead a difficult and ascetic lifestyle. What we 
are saying is that there should not be any extravagance. It is one thing
 to consume, it is quite another to consume in an extravagant way. 
A few years ago, I spoke about this issue at length in the meeting 
that was held in the beginning of the year. We officials should focus on
 this issue. Extravagance in using water, bread and food in general, 
extravagance in the area of medicine and extravagance in using the 
resources and luxuries of life waste an important part of the live 
resources of the country. This is another issue which should receive 
attention. Good and proper consumption is different from extravagance, 
waste and excessiveness. 
The ninth factor is combating corruption. If we want the people to be
 present on the economic scene, we should make this scene secure. If we 
want security, we should cut off the hands of those corrupt individuals 
who break, abuse and take advantage of the law. This is combating 
corruption. It should be taken seriously. 
Fortunately today, officials have addressed this issue, but this is 
not enough. All officials - whether executive, judiciary or legislative 
officials - are responsible in this regard. If society and the economic 
condition of the country is like a slum where anyone can come and go, do
 whatever they want and take whatever they want, it is clear what will 
happen. In such conditions, a noble, competent and respectable 
individual who wants to make a living with decent ways and means will 
not naturally step forward. 
Elucidation is the main condition for combating corruption. Things 
should be elucidated and there should be a competitive and stable 
environment. It is in these conditions that economic activists enter the
 arena and feel safe. If an individual acquires wealth in such an 
environment with his creativity, with his capital and with his 
entrepreneurship, then the Islamic government will support and approve 
of him. If the environment is a healthy one, acquiring wealth and 
receiving more income is acceptable from the viewpoint of the Islamic 
Republic and it will be supported by it. This is the ninth factor. 
And the tenth factor in the policies on the economy of resistance is 
the issue of knowledge-based economy which is a very important factor. 
Fortunately, the scientific condition of the country in the present time
 allows us to have the ambition to build a knowledge-based economy. 
Later on, I will touch on this issue again. 
We have many scientists, experts, knowledge-based companies and 
innovative individuals in the country. This is one of the most important
 infrastructures in any country. The most important economic 
infrastructure for a country is the existence of manpower. If we pay 
attention to this factor, which was the tenth one, the cycle of turning 
knowledge into wealth - particularly in areas which are beneficial - 
will naturally be set in motion. 
By Allah's favor, this will be achieved through an economy of 
resistance. These are the most important factors which have received 
attention in these policies. Of course, there are other factors in the 
policies on the economy of resistance as well. But these ten factors, 
which I referred to, were the most important ones.
Well, the question is: does bringing up the issue of the economy of 
resistance in the present time mean that we want to launch a temporary 
movement? Have we formulated these policies because the country is faced
 with sanctions, pressures and economic wars just like the think tanks 
which were formed in order to confront economic wars? The answer is no. 
We do not at all want a temporary movement. These policies are long-term
 policies. 
They are beneficial for both the present time and for the time when 
there are not any sanctions against us. These are long-term policies on 
which the economy of the country is founded. They are not provisional 
measures. Rather, they are long-term and strategic measures. 
Our country is a big country. It is a deep-rooted country which has 
outstanding privileges. In the present time, our country is a very 
dignified country throughout the world. It has an advanced culture and 
an outstanding history. It has lofty goals and it has promoted new 
ideas. A country with such characteristics needs an economy with the 
same characteristics which have been specified in the policies on the 
economy of resistance.
As I said, these policies are not fixed and inflexible. It is not at 
all the case that they cannot ingest new ideas, plans and paths. They 
are flexible and can be improved and developed. However, their main 
guidelines will not change.
In the introductory chapter of the text that we issued, we mentioned 
four fundamental points as the main motives behind formulating these 
policies. I would like to discuss these four points in this meeting: One
 was the many material and spiritual capacities that the country enjoys.
 We pointed this out in the introductory chapter of the text. This is a 
very important issue. 
The capacities of the country are very broad in scope. Many of us are
 not aware of or do not pay attention to this broad scope of astonishing
 capacities. Statistics are available to us. A number of officials do 
not pay attention to these capacities. These statistics are available to
 them, but they do not pay attention to them.
For example, we are in the best conditions in the area of manpower 
and young forces. I have discussed this issue before. In the present 
time, more than 31 percent of the overall population is made up of 
individuals whose age range is 15-29 years. This is outstanding and 
extraordinary. Of course, if the advice that I offered many times on the
 issue of birth and population is not acted on, we will lose this 
privilege in the not too distant future. By Allah's favor, the policies 
on the issue of population will be announced soon. These policies are 
about to be formulated as well. 
We are in such conditions in the present time. Our youth form more 
than 31 percent of the overall population. We have 25 times more 
students than we did in the beginning of the Revolution. The population 
of the country has doubled from the beginning of the Revolution until 
today. This is while the number of students has increased by 25 times. 
That is to say, the number of our students has increased from 120,000 to
 4,100,000. This is a very important thing. This is a great event. The 
growth that we have achieved and the wealth that we have acquired in the
 present time are very important. We have 10,000,000 university 
graduates. We have 65,000 university professors which is ten times more 
than the number of professors in the beginning of the Revolution. We 
have 5,000 knowledge-based companies. In the present time, 17,000 
experts are working in these companies. 
Notice how important these capacities are. The result is that we have
 come fifteenth in the world in terms of our scientific rank. I am 
saying this on the basis of the report which international centers in 
charge of these affairs have released. One center said sixteenth and 
another said fifteenth. In any case, our scientific rank is in the range
 of fifteen to sixteen. 
Of course, these figures are related to last year - that is to say, 
the year 2013 of the Christian calendar. This is an important 
phenomenon. Our rank is even higher in a number of fields. We are among 
the seven, eight best countries in a number of fields. In certain 
fields, we are among the four, five best countries in the world. So, 
this is the main infrastructure: manpower. 
Another capacity is our mineral resources. As I said in the beginning
 of last year, we are the top country in the area of oil and gas. In 
general, we are first in the area of underground oil and gas resources 
combined. We are second in the area of gas and we are second or third in
 the area of oil. Recently, Mr. President delivered a report to me that 
shows we are first in the area of gas and that we are undoubtedly second
 in the area of oil. This is a very important issue. 
No country in the world has as much oil and gas - combined - as we 
do. Oil and gas are the vital artery of today's world. At least, this 
holds true in the present time. I believe that they will continue to 
play this role until many years in the future. It is not clear when 
humanity will be independent of oil and gas. Your country has more of 
this vital and fundamental substance than any other country does. Is 
this a minor capacity? Is this a minor blessing? This was our capacity 
in the area of oil and gas. 
The same is true of other mineral resources. We have gold and cement 
mines. We have mines which contain rare and valuable metals. The reports
 which are delivered to us are very astonishing in some areas. These are
 the mineral capacities of the country. Our industrial and mineral 
capacities are various and numerous. We are ranked seventeenth in terms 
of the economies in the world - this is according to international 
statistics - with a gross domestic production of 1,000 billion dollars. 
We have made the same achievements in the area of infrastructural 
resources such as roads and dams. Today, there are more than 600 dams, 
in different sizes, throughout the country. The Islamic Revolution took 
over the country at a time when there were only 15 dams throughout the 
country. Today, there are more than 600 dams in different sizes. Some of
 them are very important and large. 
The same is true of the issue of roads. The statistics on roads are 
very good. We have a geographical advantage, we have easy access to 
international waters, we benefit from a crossroads location of north, 
south, east and west which facilitates transportation for us. The issue 
of transportation is a very important issue. Besides, we enjoy climatic 
variety. We have great capacities for utilizing healthy energies such as
 the energy driven from water and sunlight and the nuclear energy. These
 capacities exist in the country. Therefore, this is the first point 
about things that motivated us to look for a special economic paradigm 
which is called the economy of resistance. 
The second point is about the serious and long-lasting problems that 
we are faced with. It is not possible to solve these problems except 
with a collaborative and significant move in the area of economy. One of
 these problems is our dependence on oil which I referred to. Another 
one is our habit of importing products, particularly those products 
which are not a priority. Unfortunately, this is a habit that we suffer 
from and that we have not managed to kick. We have pinned our hopes on 
foreign products.
Other problems include high inflation, unemployment, ineffectiveness 
of some of our economic structures and the problems which exist in our 
financial systems - including monetary, banking and customs systems - in
 our norms of consumption, in our production and in our utilization of 
products. These are the problems which exist in the country in the 
present time. These problems should be challenged. The existence of 
these problems is one of the things which should motivate any 
sympathetic individual and any determined official to make certain moves
 such as promoting the economy of resistance. These problems will not be
 solved except with a jihadi, collaborative, concerned and permanent 
move. Of course, this has certain requirements which I will refer to. 
The third point is about foreign economic threats. Well, sanctions 
have been there since a long time ago. However, they have turned into an
 economic war since the winter of the year 1390. They are not called 
"targeted sanctions" anymore. In fact, this is an all-out war which has 
been waged against our people.
The reason why these sanctions are imposed is not the nuclear issue, 
human rights and other such issues. They themselves know the reason. We 
too know why they impose these sanctions. The reason is the desire of 
the people of Iran for achieving independence. The reason is that the 
Islamic Republic has new ideas on the basis of Islamic principles. They 
know that these ideas will be a model for other countries and other 
Muslim peoples. 
They know that if the Islamic Republic achieves victory in these 
arenas, this movement cannot be prevented from growing all over the 
world. They know that this is an important movement. This is the main 
issue. One day, their excuse is the nuclear issue and another day, it is
 the issue of the enrichment. One day, it is human rights and another 
day, it is other such issues. Sanctions existed against us even before 
the nuclear issue was brought up and they will continue to exist. 
Even if the nuclear issue and these negotiations are resolved, you 
will see that these pressures will continue to exist. We should build up
 immunity against these pressures and we should strengthen domestic 
structures. We should strengthen our economy so that the enemy becomes 
disappointed at influencing this area. When the enemy is disappointed, 
the people and the officials of the country will feel at ease. 
The fourth point is about global economic crises. As I said before, 
such crises result from the west's and America's economies. In fact, the
 economic crisis which arose in Europe was an overflow of the problems 
which existed in America although the ground was prepared for this 
crisis to arise even before such problems occurred in America. The same 
is true of other areas in the world.
Of course, we do not want to build a wall around ourselves. We cannot
 and we do not want to break off our relationship with the world in 
economic areas. It is neither possible nor desirable. So, we are 
influenced by the events which occur in the world. This is the reason 
why we should make our economy resistant. These were four reasons and 
motives for the necessity of the economy of resistance. This was also 
the second part of my speech. 
The third part is about requirements and expectations. Simply given 
that this great plan and this comprehensive and broad roadmap is 
formulated, this does not solve any problem. This is only the beginning 
of the path. Certain tasks should be carried out. 
The first task that officials, high-ranking managers and activists 
from among the people should carry out is to show strong determination. 
The officials of the country - primarily executive, legislative and 
judiciary officials and officials in those organizations which are in 
charge of economic issues - should make firm decisions. They should 
definitely show serious and firm determination on this issue. Without 
making serious and firm decisions, the task will not be carried out. 
The second task is entering the arena of action. The actions that are
 taken in this arena are righteous and valuable actions. Such actions 
are the manifestation of this ayah: "Except those who believe and do 
good" [The Holy Quran, 103: 3]. This general outline and this great 
roadmap should turn into a plan or many plans. 
If this happens, economic valor will be achieved in the real sense of
 the word. We named this year "The Year of Political and Economic 
Valor". Political valor was thankfully achieved. Unfortunately, economic
 valor was delayed. However, in the present time - that is to say, the 
end of the year - this can be a beginning for achieving economic valor. 
By Allah's favor, this issue should definitely be followed up by 
officials in the year 1393 and it should begin in practice. 
The third task is turning this roadmap into practical plans. An edict
 in this regard has been issued by the heads of the three branches of 
government. The honorable President and the honorable heads of 
legislative and judiciary branches have commanded their subordinate 
organizations to prepare practical plans for all sectors. 
I want to stress the issue of timetable. You should set out a 
timetable. I took a look at the directive which the First Vice President
 had issued to different organizations. There should be a timetable. It 
should be specified to what extent the task has been carried out and 
when we should expect these plans to be prepared and put into practice. 
There should be a rapid acceleration in carrying out different tasks 
and the responsibility of each branch should be determined. The 
responsibility of each branch - particularly the executive branch - 
should be determined. All factors - particularly time factors - should 
be determined so that supervision can be exercised and so that we can 
know to what extent the task has progressed and how properly it has been
 carried out. 
The fourth task is cooperation between different sectors. Of course, 
the rules and regulations for this cooperation should be established by 
the heads of the three branches of government. Cooperation will be 
helpful. There should be cooperation between the Majlis and the 
administration and between the Majlis, the administration and the 
judiciary branch. In certain areas, it is not possible to move forward 
without cooperation and in certain areas, cooperation is efficient, but 
not very much. In any case, cooperation is necessary. By Allah's favor, 
the rules and regulations for cooperation should be established by the 
heads of the three branches of government. 
The fifth task is supervision at all levels. There should be 
supervision. The heads of the three branches of government should 
supervise over their affiliate organizations and the Expediency Council 
should carry out its responsibility towards supervision in a complete 
way so that it can see what is happening. God willing, the Leadership 
and our organization will exercise supervision as well. Therefore, 
supervision is one of the main requirements.
The sixth task is removing obstacles. There are certain obstacles 
which can be removed. There are certain legal obstacles. In a meeting 
with the honorable heads of the three branches of government, I said 
that passing laws on top of the existing ones will make the task 
difficult. Problematic laws should be repealed. This can be done by the 
Majlis.
We have certain laws. If we pass new laws on the existing ones, they 
will be open to interpretation. If we do this, we are creating a problem
 for ourselves. We should be careful and we should find problematic 
laws. There are certain legal and judicial obstacles. They should be 
identified and removed. Economic activists, entrepreneurs, innovators, 
investors and scientists should feel that they are not faced with 
unreasonable obstacles so that they can move forward. 
The seventh obligation and task is creating a discourse. The economy 
of resistance should be portrayed in a proper way. The IRIB and the 
media networks of the country are responsible in this regard, but this 
is not particular to them. 
The propaganda networks which are opposed to the country, the 
Revolution and our national progress have many cards up their sleeves 
and they have begun to show them. We have seen their cards. They will 
continue to play more cards on the issue of the economy of resistance. 
They will continue to create problems and obstacles. Sometimes, they 
will ridicule these policies and sometimes, they will play down the 
importance of what is extremely important. They will adopt such 
measures. We should act the opposite of what they plan to do. Officials,
 intellectuals and sympathetic personalities should present a proper 
picture of this great and public movement. You should create a discourse
 so that the people know about, believe in and want the economy of 
resistance. It is only in this way that the task will be carried out. 
The last point that I would like to discuss in this regard is 
gathering and circulating information. There should be a competent and 
vigilant center in charge of observing the progress of the work, 
gathering and organizing information and determining what move should be
 made at any stage and level. It should carry out these tasks in a 
careful way. It should set evaluation standards for any sector. Finally,
 this information should be circulated among the people. The people like
 to know about this. This was all the things which I wanted to discuss 
with you dear brothers and sisters. 
A great task has begun. By Allah's favor and by showing determination
 and relying on Allah the Exalted, we can move this task forward step by
 step and at an acceptable pace. In my opinion, this task is one whose 
results will not become clear in the distant future. The plans are 
long-term ones, but God willing, the results will be achieved in the 
foreseeable future. By Allah's favor, the sweet results of this task and
 the general feeling of the people about this sweetness will not be 
achieved in the distant future. I hope that, by Allah's favor, the 
people will get this feeling and taste the sweet fruits of this public 
and great movement with the progress that will be made and with the 
measures that will be adopted. 
I ask Allah the Exalted to help and guide all of us, to show us our 
weaknesses, to enlighten us about our weak points and flaws, to inspire 
us to do what He pleases and to make us succeed in doing it. I thank all
 you dear brothers and sisters for sitting and listening. I expect that,
 God willing, this listening will be an introduction to a public 
movement. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

