
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Members of Assembly of Experts"/>
I thank Allah the Exalted for letting us live long enough to be 
present once more among this great gathering and to listen to and 
discuss certain issues. I express my gratitude to the honorable Chairman
 of the Assembly of Experts for his commitment to holding this meeting 
on time and for pursuing matters in a diligent way despite the 
difficulties. I would like to extend my gratitude to all the honorable 
members of this Assembly.
Many things have been said about the importance of this Assembly. 
Both I and you gentlemen have repeatedly spoken about this. This 
Assembly has a special position in the foundations of the Islamic 
government and the Islamic Republic. However, this Assembly and the 
gathering of all these ulama, great personalities, influential clergy in
 different areas, mujtahids and other such personalities is more 
significant today because of a number of issues, whether domestic or 
global. 
In my opinion, the present time is one of the eras when this Assembly
 has greater significance than ever. Many important issues are taking 
place around us, whether issues which are related to us directly or 
issues which are not related to us directly, but which we cannot ignore.
 Today, there are many such issues in the world and in the region. The 
general conditions - whether in Asia, in Africa or in Europe - are 
complex and important. Naturally, the Islamic Republic has certain 
things to say about these conditions. Having self-knowledge and being 
aware of our responsibilities is one of the tasks that all of us should 
carry out in the present time. 
As I said, there are many problems throughout the world and the 
Islamic Republic is more influential than ever in regional- and 
sometimes- in global equations. Therefore, all the bases of the Islamic 
Republic - including this Assembly - should adopt an innovative and 
fundamental outlook towards these issues. This Assembly should do this 
both because of the individual and innate responsibility of ulama and 
because of the position of this Assembly which is a governmental 
organization. 
I would like to discuss two issues. One of these issues is about 
global events in today's world. I will discuss those events which are 
related to us. Naturally, there are many events which are not related to
 us. So, I will raise certain points about those global events which are
 related to us. 
One point is that the world is undergoing fundamental changes today. 
This cannot be denied. Take a look at North Africa and other regions in 
Africa. Take a look at Asia and the powers which have emerged in this 
continent and which are challenging the traditional powers in the world.
 And take a look at the conditions in Europe. The world is undergoing a 
change. 
Of course, global and historical changes do not naturally take place 
in a short time. It is not the case that we think a change takes place 
in six months or in one, two years. This is not the case. We should see 
the signs of this change. Although this change may take place gradually 
and over the course of 20 years, we should understand what is happening 
in the world. Therefore, the first point is that the world is undergoing
 certain fundamental changes. We should know this. 
The second point is that the outward tranquility of the dominant camp
 in the world - that is to say, those powers which have traditionally 
been dominant in the world, whether America or European countries - has 
been disrupted. In the past, these powers had a kind of tranquility in 
areas related to economy, the media and social establishment inside 
their countries. In the past, a certain kind of tranquility was dominant
 in their lives. But today, this tranquility has been disrupted and one 
can see the signs of this. 
They were and still are equipped with money, weapons, propaganda 
tools and knowledge. Naturally, a power which is equipped with such 
things has a feeling of tranquility. This tranquility had dominated 
their lives for many years, but it has been disrupted today. 
This tranquility has been disrupted in several arenas. First, it has 
been disrupted in the arena of economy. In the past, their most 
important privilege was economic progress and growth, but you can see in
 what conditions they are in the present time. Both Europe and America 
are faced with an economic crisis. 
Today, their well-established economies are witnessing bankruptcy. 
Imagine that the government of a country is indebted more than its 
national gross income. In the present time, this is the situation which 
exists in America. The government of the United States of America is a 
heavily indebted government which has not found any solution to save 
itself from this indebtedness. This is why their major programs are not 
implemented successfully. This situation exists in America and in great 
and strong European countries although they do not clearly reflect it in
 their media. 
The current President of America has been promising the people to 
provide public health insurance since the first term he was elected. But
 he has not managed to do this until today - that is to say, six years 
after his presidency. The president of a country with all those 
financial and other resources has given a certain promise to his people,
 but he has failed to fulfill it. Well, this is the way it is. As a 
result of this, the Americans have great problems in the arena of 
economy which is an important arena in arrogant countries and for 
traditional powers in the world. As everyone has heard in the news, 
European and many other different countries too have great economic 
problems. 
They have been defeated in the arena of morality as well. Well, the 
current western civilization was created on the basis of respecting 
human principles. The entire western civilization was based on humanism 
and humanist principles. This means that human principles are the main 
element, goal and qiblah for this civilization. This is while, these 
principles have been trampled upon in today's western civilization and 
they have really been defeated in this area. 
Until a short time ago, they used to reflect these human principles 
by wearing the clothes of knowledge and academic language, through which
 they used to cover up their weaknesses. But these weaknesses became 
clear gradually and the true nature of this materialistic civilization -
 which is against humanity and the divine nature - is showing itself. 
One example of this is murder, plunder and violence. These violent 
acts of murder and plunder have increased to such an extent that 
everyone knows about them today. There was a time when the English used 
to commit certain crimes in India and in Burma, but they used to appear 
in a neat and polite way in other places. Those days are over now. 
Today, everyone knows about their violent acts. 
Those individuals who reflect people's opinions are showing the camp 
of arrogance what violent acts it has committed. These arrogant powers 
engage in murder, plunder, violence and lustful acts which transform 
one's nature. One of these lustful acts is marriage to the same sex. 
This is different from homosexuality and it is much worse than it. This 
means allowing those things which are against the divine nature to 
dominate ones' life: "Do you practice wickedness even in your councils?"
 [The Holy Quran, 29: 29]. This has been mentioned in the Holy Quran as 
well. 
Today, they acknowledge these wicked acts in an open and outspoken 
way. Two individuals of the same sex get married and churches record 
this marriage. And the President of America says, "I am in favor of, not
 against this act". This means that such inward decadence and such 
lustful acts are not considered to be indecent anymore in these 
countries. 
Another act they commit is supporting terrorism in a clear way. As 
you can see in regional events, there are some individuals who tear 
people's liver out of their body and who begin to bite it in front of 
cameras. This is while European powers sit and watch. Of course, they 
try to be careful and they do not say that they will help such 
individuals. Rather, they say, "We will help this opposition force". 
This is the way they behave. They openly support terrorism, one that is 
very violent, wild and savage. 
They insult everything that is sacred. They easily insult holy and 
enlightened personalities and stain their honor in the name of freedom. 
They insult prophets and great personalities, not only our Holy Prophet 
(s.w.a.), but also all prophets. In another meeting, I said to officials
 in charge of cultural affairs that many of our officials in this area 
are not aware of cultural issues. For example, they do not read 
different books and most of them are not in the middle of the arena. I 
said to them that these arrogant powers insult Prophet Moses, Prophet 
Jesus and other great prophets (peace be upon them all). This exists 
today. So, this arrogant camp, which used to control global affairs, has
 been defeated and severely criticized in moral fronts as well.
In the arena of identity-based reason too, this civilization and its 
guardians have been defeated because the scholarly foundations of this 
materialistic civilization are collapsing one by one. Certain scholars -
 whether in areas related to humanities or in other areas - came and 
rejected their ideas. Therefore, the scholarly foundations of this 
civilization are collapsing one by one. 
They have been defeated in the arena of international reputation and 
dignity as well. Their reputation has really been ruined. All the crimes
 which have been committed by western governments and their dictatorial 
agents have become clear to people throughout the world. Today, they are
 hated everywhere in the world. Of course, some of the leaders of these 
western governments and some of the leaders of dependent, weak, 
conservative and cowardly governments say some things out of certain 
considerations, but the truth is that they are hated by peoples today. 
In the present time, America is more hated than all other 
governments, both in the Middle East region and in other regions. Of 
course, this hatred is very deep in Islamic regions, but it exists in 
other regions as well. So, these powers have been defeated in the arena 
of dignity and reputation. This is another issue which has left nothing 
for this bullying camp - the government of America being the leader of 
these bullies and supposedly stronger and more prepared than all these 
bullies - to rely on. They have no dignity in the world. This was the 
second point that I wanted to discuss in this meeting. 
The next point regarding global realities and events is the awakening
 of nations. When we spoke about Islamic Awakening in North Africa and 
the Arabian Peninsula, some people opposed this term and said that it is
 not Islamic Awakening and that it has nothing to do with Islam. But 
later on, it became clear that these events are completely related to 
Islam. 
Well, it seems that they have silenced this Islamic Awakening, but it
 cannot be silenced. When a sense of Islamic responsibility and Islamic 
identity emerges among a people, it cannot be destroyed easily. Even if a
 government is sidelined and overthrown either with a coup d'etat or 
with any other means, people's spirit of self-confidence and 
self-knowledge about their Islamic identity cannot be destroyed easily, 
as it has not been destroyed in the present time. This awakening is 
boiling like a hot pot in those regions and countries which have 
awakened. It is not the case that this Awakening has been destroyed. 
This is another reality in the world. Islamic resistance has reached its
 peak. 
Another reality - which is, perhaps one of the most important ones - 
is the issue of the people of Iran. After the passage of 35 years from 
the rise of the Revolution, the people of Iran have not become exhausted
 with the Revolution and they have not abandoned it. They have not 
drifted away from their revolutionary spirit.
You saw this year's 22nd of Bahaman. The 22nd of Bahaman is a 
phenomenon. I have said many times that we have gotten used to this very
 significant event. Later on, I will raise certain points about our 
youth who are among the realities which should receive attention. In any
 case, this is a fundamental issue. We are in such a world. 
These events - which signify fundamental changes - are taking place 
in regional and African countries, in our own country and in all areas 
in the world. In our country too, the growth of Islamic thoughts, 
Islamic resistance and the tree of the Islamic government can be 
witnessed as well. Considering these things, it should be said that our 
outlook towards domestic and global issues should be a serious one. 
The second issue I want to discuss is the responsibilities that we 
have. I have written down a number of points in this regard. Of course, 
these are not all the points which should be raised in this regard. 
Besides, these points are not new. Rather, these are points which all 
you gentlemen are aware of. However, it is good to repeat them. The 
responsibilities that we have are many, including the following:
One of these responsibilities is adopting a realistic outlook. We 
should see the realities which exist in our society. Naturally, when one
 takes a look at realities, one focuses on weak points. All the things 
which we observe in our society - including the problem of high prices 
or failure in reaching certain Islamic goals - are among the realities 
which we often see clearly. 
Of course, some people magnify these realities. This is while there 
are other realities in the country as well and these realities should be
 seen. One of these realities is what I just referred to: the reality of
 the resistance of the Islamic Republic on the basis of Islam. This is a
 reality. 
The enemies of Islam and Iran expected that the people would be tired
 of, forget about and abandon the Revolution after one, two, five years.
 This is what has happened to many revolutions in the world. In fact, I 
should say that this has happened to all, not many, revolutions. As far 
as I know, this has happened to all the revolutions which have been 
conducted in the world during the past 200, 250 years. After a short 
while, their excitement wore off, their revolutionary wave began to fall
 and they were back to prior conditions. 
During my presidency, I went to a country which had carried out a 
revolution seven, eight years before. The leader of the country was 
among the revolutionary elements at the time we went there. When I 
entered the place where we were supposed to have a feast, I saw that the
 same situation which existed during the time of the previous 
colonialist ruler - who was Portuguese and who had colonized this 
country - existed at that time too. I saw that the same situation 
existed both in terms of appearance and in terms of behavior. There was 
no difference. 
Of course, in the beginning - when they had just come to power - they
 were not like this. They were gradually influenced by the behavior of 
those arrogant and dictatorial rulers who had ruled before them and as a
 result, they began to behave in the same way. But the Islamic 
Revolution was not influenced. The Islamic Republic was not influenced. 
Those people who wanted to impose previous conducts, traditions and 
methods on this country and on this Revolution failed in their attempts.
 The Revolution continues to promote Islamic and revolutionary ideas. It
 continues to promote ideas which are related to independence, national 
resistance, domestic progress and justice and it continues to make 
efforts in order to achieve these great goals. All of these are the 
issues of the Revolution. These are important things. This is a reality.
Another reality which should not be ignored is the issue of religious
 motives in today's young and revolutionary generation. Sometimes, old 
people see that they are the only people who are committed to their 
revolution and that youth have abandoned it. But we can witness that 
this is not the case in our Revolution. Today, we have many 
revolutionary youth throughout the country and they are from different 
social backgrounds. We have many youth in universities who are both 
religious and revolutionary. 
In my opinion, these youth have a higher position than the youth 
during the revolutionary era. Why is that? First, in those days, that 
great and enthusiastic Revolution had been carried out and second, the 
Internet, satellite TV and all these different propaganda networks did 
not exist at that time. In those days, youth were not exposed to such 
harm. Today's youth are exposed to all these harmful propaganda tools. 
They are exposed to the Internet through which the enemies are trying 
hard to make our youth deviate from the right path. 
Despite all these propaganda tools, our youth have remained pious. 
They say prayers and attach great significance to it. They say midnight 
prayers, they perform nafelehs, they participate in important religious 
ceremonies, they stand up for the Revolution and they chant heartfelt 
slogans. These are important things. In my opinion, our today's youth 
are one of our greatest sources of pride. This is a reality which should
 be seen. 
Another reality which should receive attention is our infinite 
national capacities. Fortunately, after the formation of the new 
administration, I have seen that all the executive officials of the 
country - I had the opportunity to meet with them particularly on these 
days - acknowledge, believe in and are aware of these infinite domestic 
capacities of the country. 
Thankfully, the existence of these capacities helped this humble 
person and my colleagues to formulate the policies on the economy of 
resistance. If a country is deprived of domestic capabilities, it cannot
 create a resistant economy. A resistant economy can be created when we 
have enough capacities inside the country. Whenever we have a meeting 
with any official in charge of economic affairs, they refer to many 
domestic capacities. This is another reality which is very important. 
Another reality which should not be ignored is the enmity of our 
enemies. The enmity of the enemy should not be ignored. As Saadi says, 
"Whenever the enemy fails in all his tricks, he disguises himself as a 
friend" [Golestan, Chapter 8]. When he appears as a friend, he does what
 no enemy has done to us. We should not forget this. This is a reality. 
They are our enemies and they are the enemies of Islam, our national 
independence and our people because of the characteristics that our 
people have. If our people had abandoned the Revolution and Islam and if
 they had given in to transgressors and aggressors, the enemies would 
have been very pleased with them and they would have praised them. But 
they are unfriendly towards our people because of these characteristics.
 "Vehement hatred has already appeared from their mouths" [The Holy 
Quran, 3: 118]. 
The statements that they make show how deep this grudge and enmity 
is. "What their hearts conceal is far worse" [The Holy Quran, 3: 118]. 
The things that they say are only part of this enmity. What is hidden in
 their hearts is far worse. This is another reality which should not be 
forgotten. 
Another reality is that they are frustrated with confronting the 
people of Iran and the Islamic government. If you want to know why they 
are frustrated, the reason is they cannot confront us. They have imposed
 sanctions on us. If they had been able to confront us, why would they 
have imposed sanctions? 
The fact that they constantly issue military threats is a proof that 
sanctions were not, are not and will not be efficient. Well, if they had
 been able to destroy this Revolution and bring our people to their 
knees with ordinary and common methods in the world, they would not have
 needed to issue so many threats and exert so many pressures and other 
such things. Sanctions are not new and they have imposed them in the 
past as well. 
Fortunately today, the agreement that the honorable executive 
officials, including the President and ministers in charge of such 
affairs, and the heads of the other two branches reached shows that 
sanctions - which the enemies have imposed on the people of Iran in an 
oppressive way and out of grudge, enmity and hatred - will not have any 
effect at all. Our officials should be thanked because they really 
welcomed this idea. Of course, they themselves took a leading part in 
making decisions about this in the Expediency Council and they held 
certain discussions about this issue. By Allah's favor, the economy of 
resistance will overcome their plots. This is another reality.
I would like to refer to another reality - these good realities are 
many - which is the fact that whenever we relied on God and the power of
 the people and whenever we were willing to launch jihadi movements, we 
emerged victorious. From the beginning of the Revolution until today, 
whenever we brought the people to the middle of the arena, whenever we 
began our work in the name of God and whenever our movement was jihadi, 
we emerged victorious. 
This happened during the Revolution as well. During the revolutionary
 era, the people took to the streets in large numbers. People from 
different social backgrounds went to the middle of the arena and the 
movement was a jihadi one. The people went to the middle of the arena 
during the eight-year Sacred Defense Era as well. Eight years of war is 
not a minor issue. They imposed eight years of war on this country. 
Imam- may God bestow paradise on him and may the immaculate soul of 
this great man achieve happiness and be associated with prophets and 
God's saints- realized what the secret of the issue was and he 
understood what he should do. It was God who inspired and guided him. 
Imam brought the people to the middle of the arena. Allah the Exalted 
had dominated the hearts and tongues of the people and the task was a 
jihadi one. As a result of this, we emerged victorious. This is another 
reality. 
The last point that I would like to raise about these realities is 
that we should notice where we were and where we are now. "And remember 
when you were few, deemed weak in the land" [The Holy Quran, 8: 26]. We 
should not forget the day when we were weak and small in numbers and 
when we were considered to be inferior. Both the people of Iran and our 
pious community were in such conditions. Both the clergy and our 
enthusiastic youth were in such conditions. They were small in numbers 
and weak and they were considered to be inferior. Today, Allah the 
Exalted has thankfully strengthened them. In my opinion, one of our 
responsibilities is to see these realities. We should not forget these 
realities. Rather, we should keep them in mind. This is one 
responsibility. 
Another responsibility which I have written down to discuss and which
 we should always remember - particularly in the present time - is 
drawing clear borders between ourselves and the enemy. We should draw 
borders. There is a holy ayah which says, "There is for you an excellent
 example to follow in Ibrahim and those with him when they said to their
 people, 'We are clear of you and of whatever you worship besides Allah.
 We have rejected you and there has arisen, between us and you, enmity 
and hatred for ever unless you believe in Allah and Him alone'" [The 
Holy Quran, 60: 4]. 
The Holy Quran does not only recount history. It mentions that this 
is an excellent example for you: "There is for you an excellent example 
to follow in Ibrahim". You should behave in this way. You should draw 
borders between yourselves and the enemy. 
Drawing borders does not mean that we should break off our 
relationship with the entire world. You should take care not to let 
certain people falsely say, "You are saying that we are the enemies of 
the entire world". This is not what I mean. Rather, what I mean is that 
we should draw borders and these borders should not be confused with one
 another. 
These borders are like geographical borders. When you want to 
establish geographical borders, you draw certain lines between your 
country and the surrounding countries. This does not mean that we will 
never go to these countries or that they will never come to ours. This 
border means that any coming and going will be done in an orderly way. 
It should be clear when and how we go there or who goes there. It should
 be clear who comes here and when, how and why he comes. This is the way
 geographical borders are drawn. 
The same is true of ideological borders. In the same holy ayah, after
 Allah the Exalted refers to this excellent example and to Ibrahim's 
actions, He says, "But not when Ibrahim said to his father, 'I will pray
 for forgiveness for you'" [The Holy Quran, 60: 4]. This means that 
drawing borders does not prevent Ibrahim from saying to his father, "I 
will show mercy on you and I will ask for forgiveness for you". All of 
these things exist in drawing borders. Therefore, the meaning of drawing
 borders is that it should be clear who we are and who the other side 
is. 
I think that the auspicious sura "Oh, You Unbelievers" refers to 
drawing this border: "I worship not that which you worship, nor will you
 worship that which I worship" [The Holy Quran, 109: 2-3]. That is to 
say, the borders should be drawn and they should not be confused with 
one another. Those people who try to undermine, fade and destroy these 
borders - whether religious and ideological borders or political borders
 - are not rendering services to the people and the country. 
Independence is a border for the country. Those people who try to 
undermine and destroy the people's independence in the name of becoming 
an international country and dissolving into and becoming compatible 
with the global community and those people who write articles and 
deliver speeches about this are not rendering services to our country. 
You say that we should interact with the world. Well, you can engage 
in this interaction, but it should be clear who you interact with, why 
you interact with them and what kind of interaction you have with them. 
These things should become clear. This is the meaning of drawing 
borders. The same is true of drawing domestic borders. In my opinion, 
this is one of the issues which we should pay attention to. It is one of
 our responsibilities to draw these borders. 
As soon as the country faces a problem, some individuals begin to 
blame those people who showed resistance. They say, "Do you see? When 
one shows such steadfastness, these problems occur". In the early 
Islamic era, there were such individuals as well: "Those who said of 
their brethren while they themselves held back, 'Had they obeyed us, 
they would not have been killed'. Say, 'Then avert death from yourselves
 if you speak the truth'" [The Holy Quran, 3: 168]. 
If Allah the Exalted decides to prevent us from moving forward on the
 basis of the divine tradition, we will certainly face problems. During 
the Battle of Badr, some people "Said to themselves, 'Had we any hand in
 the affair, we would not have been slain here'" [The Holy Quran, 3: 
154]. It is not the case that if we give in to the enemy, our problems 
will be solved. This is not the case. 
I should really thank the officials of the country for their 
outspoken statements in the face of the enemy. They make outspoken 
statements about the effort of the people of Iran and the Revolution to 
avoid adopting a passive role. This is very necessary. We should create a
 discourse about this issue. Later on, I will expand on this issue. This
 is one of our main issues. 
Another issue, which is one of our responsibilities, is that we 
should not be intimidated by the enmity of malevolent individuals. After
 all, enmity always exists. No people who have innovative ideas and who 
can launch certain movements are immune from the enmity of enemies. In 
my opinion, the people of Iran are lucky today because their enemy and 
enemies are among the most infamous people in the world. 
Notice that today, the government of America is a violent and 
criminal actor on the international scene. This is the truth of the 
issue. Today, this is the government of America on an international 
level: a violent, criminal and unscrupulous actor who is not afraid to 
make nasty moves and to violate the rights of peoples. 
In America, this government has been introduced as a dishonest and 
mercenary regime which goes back on its promises. This is why the 
people's belief and trust in these governments - both the government of 
the current President of America and the previous president of America -
 was at a very low level according the opinion polls which were carried 
out in America. This shows that the people of America do not believe in 
them. Well, such governments are our enemies. Our enemies are not 
dignified and prestigious governments. Rather, these are the governments
 which are our enemies. Therefore, one should not harbor fear of such 
people in his heart. 
Reliance on the divine support is a very important issue as well. Mr.
 Mahdavi recited part of the holy ayah which is about Prophet Moses' 
community. I would like to recite the other part of this holy ayah. When
 Bani Israel were moving out of Egypt with the guidance of Prophet 
Moses, Pharaoh's army caught up with them: "And when the two bodies saw 
each other, the people of Moses said: "We are sure to be overtaken" [The
 Holy Quran, 26: 61]. 
When the two groups got so close to each other that they could see 
each other - that is to say, when either of them could see the other one
 at a distance - "The people of Moses said, 'We are sure to be 
overtaken'". They said that they would be completely annihilated. "Moses
 said, 'By no means. My Lord is with me. Soon will He guide me" [The 
Holy Quran, 26: 62]. Notice that this is a lesson. If you stay with God,
 will God abandon a servant who stays with Him? "He said, 'Fear not for I
 am with you. I hear and see everything'" [The Holy Quran, 20: 46]. This
 has been mentioned in another part of the story of Prophet Moses. If we
 stay with God, Allah the Exalted will help us. So, this is another 
responsibility. We should not fear. 
As for the issue of unity, preserving national unity and unanimity is
 one of our responsibilities. The great danger of the presence of 
takfiri forces, which are unfortunately active in parts of the region, 
is not that they kill innocent people. Of course, this is a crime and it
 is great, but their great danger is that they make the two groups of 
Shia and Sunni Islam be pessimistic towards each other. This is a very 
great danger. 
We should prevent this pessimism so that on the one hand, Shia 
Muslims do not think it is the camp of Sunni Islam which confronts and 
behaves towards Shia Muslims like this and on the other hand, Sunni 
Islam will not be influenced by the statements of these takfiri forces -
 that is to say, what these forces say including the false rumors that 
they spread about Shia Islam and the fires which they fuel. 
They should be careful. Both Shia and Sunni Muslims should be 
careful. Everyone throughout the country should know this. Both Sunni 
and Shia Muslims throughout the country should know this. They should 
not let the unity which exists in the country today be shattered. One 
part of this unity is solidarity between Shia and Sunni denominations 
and between different ethnicities. Magnifying ethnic characteristics and
 fueling the fire of nepotism are dangerous measures. This is playing 
with fire. Everyone should pay attention to this issue as well.
Another issue is the issue of culture. It became clear in this 
meeting that you gentlemen are concerned about this issue. I am 
concerned as well. The issue of culture is a very important issue. The 
basis of this resistance, movement - and by Allah's favor - victory is 
preserving the Islamic and revolutionary culture and strengthening 
cultural and religious groups and the saplings which have grown in the 
arena of culture. 
Thankfully, we have good and religious youth in the arena of culture 
and art. They have been diligently active in this arena. Some of them 
are young and some of them have passed their youth. But we do not have a
 shortage of cultural personalities. We should certainly pay attention 
to the issue of culture. The honorable members of the administration and
 other people should pay attention to this issue as well. I share your 
concern and I hope that the officials in charge of cultural affairs pay 
attention to what they are doing.
Cultural issues cannot be joked with and ignored. If there is a 
cultural rift, this is not like an economic rift which can be patched up
 by collecting money, distributing goods and monetary subsidies among 
the people. This is not the case with cultural rifts because they cannot
 be easily patched up and they create many problems. 
And everyone should really appreciate the value of religious and 
revolutionary youth. Everyone should appreciate their value. It is these
 religious and revolutionary youth who lay down their lives in the face 
of different dangers, who fight in eight-year imposed wars and who are 
in the middle of the arena. It is these youth who do such things. 
Those individuals who adopt a pessimistic outlook towards these youth
 and who make the people adopt this outlook are not rendering services 
to the country, to the independence and progress of the country and to 
the Islamic Revolution. These youth should be preserved and appreciated.
 Thankfully, they are not few in number. Rather, they are many. We 
should not reject and isolate these religious youth with different 
excuses. Of course, they are not isolated with such things. These 
revolutionary and motivated youth are not isolated with such statements.
 However, we should appreciate their value. 
The last issue is the issue of creating discourses. The issues which I
 raised are not only some pieces of advice and some sympathetic words 
between us. It is not the case that we discussed these issues for the 
sake of conversation. These issues should turn into a discourse. 
Discourse means public belief. It means what can be accepted as a common
 belief among the people and what the people pay attention to. This can 
be achieved with explication. It can be achieved with essential, 
reasonable and scholarly illustration, one that is free of different 
kinds of extremism. These issues should be conveyed to the people with 
proper words and with the language of expertise, reason and good 
conduct.
I hope that Allah the Exalted bestows His blessings on all the 
honorable gentlemen in this meeting. I hope that He will help, guide and
 assist us so that first, we can know our responsibilities and second, 
we can be completely determined to carry out these responsibilities. 
"Dear God, strengthen my body so that it can serve You, strengthen my 
heart, bestow upon me the seriousness to fear You and give me the 
steadfastness to serve You" [from Dua Kumayl].
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

