
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech on Occasion of Tree-Planting Day"/>
First, I deem it necessary to express my gratitude to all those 
people who are active in the area of improving the environment. Second, I
 ask all officials and all the people to attach great significance to 
the issue of green areas. I ask all of them to prevent the country, the 
people and their lives from being deprived of this divine assistance and
 this very great divine blessing - which is plants, trees and the like.
The issue of the environment is very important. The issue of the haze
 and dust particles which come to the country from the outside is really
 a very important issue. A few days ago, the Minister of Agriculture 
delivered a report to me about this issue and the damage that it causes.
 It is necessary for all the officials of the country and all different 
executive organizations to cooperate with one another in a fundamental 
way in order to prevent this damage. This will cause great damage to the
 country. Recently, a report has been delivered to me about these haze 
particles. This report is warning and it is necessary to pay attention 
to it. 
I ask the people to respect trees and attach great significance to 
the environment. The slogan, "Each Iranian Should Plant a Tree" which is
 common among the people is a good slogan. The people should do their 
best to plant more trees on such days. Both the people and officials in 
particular should prevent the hands which try to destroy the 
environment. They should not allow our forests, grasslands and the 
environment in cities and suburban areas to be destroyed. 
If you do not act in a powerful and decisive way, the Alborz mountain
 range will turn into iron and cement all the way up to the peaks. That 
is to say, if you do not act decisively, some people will continue to 
take advantage of the situation. Of course, you mentioned that you are 
working on this. This is very good, but this should be visibly seen in 
practice so that people know fundamental measures are being adopted. I 
hope that, by Allah's favor, you will be successful. 
