
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with People of East Azerbaijan"/>
I would like to welcome all the dear brothers and sisters from Tabriz
 and Azerbaijan. I express my gratitude to you dear brothers and sisters
 for enduring this long trip on these cold days of winter in order to 
imbue our Hussainiyah with warmth and enthusiasm on these important and 
historical days. I would like to express my deep gratitude to all the 
brothers and sisters - particularly the great families of martyrs, 
outstanding ulama and high-ranking officials - and I thank the honorable
 Friday prayer leader of Tabriz, Mr. Shabestari, who has really made and
 continues to make valuable efforts. These efforts are best suited for 
this great city and province. 
I would like to say something in the beginning of my speech which is a
 word of thanks for the great people of Iran because of the glory, 
greatness and power that they showed on the 22nd of Bahman. Words cannot
 properly describe and appreciate this glory. First, we should prostrate
 ourselves before God, who is the Transformer of hearts and souls and 
who is the Conqueror of intentions and willpowers. Everything happens 
according to the will of God. Second, I express my deep gratitude to all
 the people of Iran throughout the country for holding the 22nd of 
Bahman rallies in such a lively, outstanding and blossoming way. Later 
on, I will refer to the issues related to the 22nd of Bahman again.
Today, our gathering and meeting with you dear people of Tabriz and 
people from other cities of Azerbaijan is on the occasion of the 29th of
 Bahman. The 29th of Bahman is not only a name. It is not a day like 
other days and it is not a mere event. The 29th of Bahman means the 
event which happened in the year 1356 on such a day - that is to say, on
 the 29th of Bahman. It was a single event, but with several meanings. 
Many of you youth who are present in this meeting - who are my dear ones
 and my dear children - did not witness the 29th of Bahman. However, the
 lessons of the 29th of Bahman are still alive.
This great event had several significant points. The first point was 
that it showed and reflected the moral and behavioral characteristics of
 the people of Tabriz and Azerbaijan. This is very important. We should 
know ourselves with our characteristics and moral attributes. Other 
people sit and write for us the characteristics of the people of Iran in
 a distorted and short-sighted way. We should accurately know ourselves 
in the mirror of these events. 
In the event of the 29th of Bahman, the people of Tabriz showed these
 characteristics: First, deep religious faith, second, religious zeal 
and third courage. The other characteristics that they showed include 
awareness about the requirements of the time and a correct understanding
 of events. It is very important for a group of people to be religious 
and courageous, to have the power to take action and to know when to 
take action. 
Taking action sooner or later than the right time is not efficient. 
The people of Tabriz created the event of the 29th of Bahman exactly at 
the right time. Such characteristics are very important. Of course, 
Tabriz and Azerbaijan had these characteristics even before the 29th of 
Bahman and they continue to have them until today. The events which 
followed the 29th of Bahman have shown this. Therefore, these 
characteristics should be preserved. 
Showing Islamic faith, religious zeal and courage, being ready to 
take action, playing a leading role, breaking lines, accomplishing 
outstanding and innovative feats in the way of lofty goals, knowing the 
right time and the circumstances and doing what is best suited for these
 circumstances are among the blessings and the results of the 29th of 
Bahman which reflected the outstanding characteristics of the people of 
Tabriz and Azerbaijan in the mirror of history. 
The second point about the 29th of Bahman is that it showed how 
blessed the solidarity between the different areas of the country is. 
How far are Qom and Tabriz from each other? A certain event took place 
in Qom [the uprising of the 19th of Dey]. Well, those people did not 
want to let it stay alive. They wanted to consign it to oblivion. But 
the people from an area which is far away from Qom - that is to say, 
Tabriz - rose up all of a sudden and kept the event of Qom alive. 
It was not the case that the 40th day mourning ceremony on the 
occasion of the uprising of Qom was commemorated by the people of Qom. 
Rather, it was Tabriz which commemorated it. As a result, the oppressive
 and taghuti regime became ferocious and did something stupid in the 
face of the people of Tabriz. In this event, a number of people were 
martyred. The propaganda efforts that they made at that time were very 
stupid and wrong. They wanted to cover up this event.
Anyway, when this event was over, it was the people of Yazd who 
commemorated the 40th day ceremony on the occasion of this event in 
Tabriz. This is the solidarity between the different areas of the 
country. This chain of solidarity continued to develop. It was you 
people of Azerbaijan who played a pioneering role in commemorating the 
arbaeens for the martyrs of the Revolution. Then this movement was 
extended to Yazd, Shiraz, Bushehr and other areas of the country. This 
was the second point about issues related to the 29th of Bahman.
The third point is that if the people of Qom or Tabriz had been told 
that their movements on the 19th of Dey and 29th of Bahman would lead to
 a great revolution, none of them would have believed it. But this 
happened. This shows that if a people show diligence, step into the 
scene and avoid retreating, they can even move mountains and work 
miracles. And this miracle happened. My dear ones, dear youth, you 
should think about and study the reasons for the emergence of the 
Revolution. The event which was most similar to the miracles of prophets
 was the event of the victory of the Revolution. 
Would anyone have believed that the people of a country - who were 
under the domination of America, who were entrapped by western culture, 
whose economy was completely in the hands of powerful global enemies, 
who were weak in military areas and who were isolated in terms of 
international dignity - would rise up against all symbols of phony and 
materialistic power, would raise the flag of Islam in the world of 
materialism and in the face of the East and the West, would stand up 
against them, would achieve victory and success and would make them 
retreat? America and the Soviet Union had disagreements over hundreds of
 issues, but they had an agreement on one issue which was to destroy the
 Islamic Revolution.
In such conditions, who would have believed this? But this happened 
and this is a lesson. One of the lessons of the 22nd of Bahman to 
yourselves, to us and to all the people of Iran is that one should know 
there is no great event, obstacle and power which can stand up against 
the firm determination of a people. 
There are many things to be said about the characteristics of the 
29th of Bahman and the people of Azerbaijan and Tabriz. After this 
event, the same spirit, the same sense of responsibility and the same 
sense of commitment and motivation have continued to exist in the people
 of Azerbaijan until today. The people of Tabriz have shone brightly in 
different events. These lessons should be preserved and remembered. 
As I said, first we should know our domestic characteristics and 
second, we should pay attention to the relationship and solidarity 
between the different areas of the country. The latter is an issue on 
which the enemies have focused their efforts. They want to pit Iranian 
ethnicities, who joined hands in a brotherly way during all events, 
against one another. 
We have Turks, Arabs, Fars, Lurs, Baluchis, Kurds, Turkmens and 
various other ethnic groups in Iran. One characteristic dominates all of
 them which is Islamic Iran's rule over them. This rule has gathered all
 of them under the flag of Islam, Islamic glories and the beautiful name
 of Iran. Today, there is an effort to separate these ethnicities from 
one another. Everyone should know vigilantly that some people are 
scheming to pit Iranian ethnicities against one another. We should not 
forget the message of unity, solidarity, sympathy and cooperation that 
the 22nd of Bahman has delivered to us. This is the second point. The 
third point is the miracle that the willpower of the people worked. 
Let us go back to the issue of the 22nd of Bahman and the Revolution 
which is the issue of our past and present and which will remain our 
primary issue forever. The 22nd of Bahman has shown itself to be more 
enthusiastic each year. 
Some people make different analyses. In fact, these analyses are 
carried out in a vacuum. They sit and think to themselves, but the 
reality says something else about the people. Those people who carefully
 counted the number of the people participating in the 22nd of Bahman 
rallies by observing the streets - a number of them do this with special
 cameras - have delivered many reports to us about this. These people 
said to us that last year - the year 1391 - the number of people was 
remarkably larger than the year before that. The same people who carry 
out these exact or nearly exact calculations reported that this year, 
the number of people was even larger than last year. 
When people keep repeating this, someone may think that this is a 
load of nonsense such as the slogan "every year better than the previous
 year". But this is not the case. This is the truth. Well, what does 
this truth show us? This humble person thinks that the public 
celebration on the occasion of the victory of the Revolution is a unique
 phenomenon like the Revolution itself. 
What does this mean? It means that as our Revolution was peerless 
throughout the history of revolutions - even the enemies have 
acknowledged this - the commemoration ceremony on the occasion of the 
anniversary of this Revolution is peerless, because of different 
reasons, throughout the world as well. The commemoration ceremonies 
which were held on the anniversary of different revolutions in the world
 and which we used to see on TV and hear in the news were soulless and 
formal. These commemoration ceremonies were held two, three, four years 
after the establishment of such revolutions. 
This is not the case in our country. The people celebrate not only in
 Tehran, but also in all the cities of the country. They celebrate not 
only in capital cities, but also in all the cities of the country. They 
celebrated not only the first, second, fifth and tenth anniversary, but 
also the 35th one. 
Is this not an astonishing phenomenon? Thirty five years have passed 
from the Revolution. Those people who were born in the first year of the
 Revolution are 35-year- old men and women now and their youth is over. 
This is while each year, the anniversary of the Revolution is held in a 
motivated, powerful and glorious way, with a sense of resistance and 
with faithfulness to the ideals of the Revolution. 
Is this not astonishing? Let the media networks of the enemy say 
whatever they want, but their think tanks know what is happening in our 
country. Those who sit and study our events know that it is not possible
 to confront these people, this Revolution, this motivation and this 
faith. 
What kinds of slogans do our people chant? They chant the slogan of 
steadfastness in the straight path of the Revolution. They chant these 
slogans everywhere. Throughout the country, their slogans are about 
resistance. With the 22nd of Bahman rallies, the people show the truth 
that Allah the Exalted has fulfilled His promise: "if you help the cause
 of Allah, He will help you and make firm your stand" [The Holy Quran, 
47: 7]. 
Allah the Exalted will make firm and strengthen your stand. He will 
not let you be forced to retreat. This is the divine promise. This 
divine promise has been fulfilled for the people of Iran. You helped the
 religion of God and Allah the Exalted bestowed firmness of standing on 
you. This celebration on the 35th anniversary of the Revolution tells of
 the firmness of standing. 
Well, what is the message of this celebration? You should take a look
 at the slogans of the people in order to understand the message of this
 celebration. The way I see it, there were two messages in this year's 
22nd of Bahman rallies. One was resistance and the other was unity. 
What does resistance mean? It means that the people of Iran stand up 
for the ideals of the Revolution. Well, we have both affirmative and 
negative [in logic, an affirmative proposition is a statement that 
asserts something and a negative proposition is a statement which denies
 or negates something] slogans. These are our affirmative slogans: we 
are after social justice, we are after public presence in different 
events of the country, we are after Islam, we think that the happiness 
of the country lies in observing Islamic teachings, we are after an 
independent economy, we are after the kind of culture which is 
independent of foreigners, we are after a completely Islamic and Iranian
 culture, we are after offering refuge to the oppressed and confronting 
the oppressor, we are after the progress of the country, we are after 
the scientific prominence of our country and we want our country to play
 a leading and pioneering role in economy, culture, social issues, 
morality and spirituality. These are the affirmative slogans of our 
Revolution. 
Our Revolution had also certain negative slogans. These are the 
negative slogans of the Revolution: we do not give in to bullying and 
blackmailing and we do not give in to arrogance. 
Arrogance means that a few powers - which have gained materialistic 
capabilities and which have weapons, money and other such things - want 
to rule over the world. And today, arrogance is manifested by America. 
During the Revolution, during subsequent events and during the imposed 
war, the people of Iran said, "We do not give in to America's bullying 
and blackmailing". 
Some people should not put make-up on the face of America and erase 
the ugly parts, savagery and violence from its face. They should not 
describe America as a friendly and philanthropic government to our 
people. Even if these people make an effort to do this, their effort 
will be vain. Notice what America has done throughout the world over the
 last 70, 80 years - of course, there are many things in the history of 
America before this era which I do not want to discuss now. Take a look 
at the wars which America has waged, the innocent and civilian people 
whom it has viciously killed in these wars and in other events and the 
dictators which have been supported by America in the East and in the 
West.
One of these dictators was Mohammad Reza Pahlavi in Iran and tens of 
other such dictators in Asian, African and Latin American countries 
including military and non-military figures. These dictators oppressed 
their people for many years. They viciously oppressed the people, they 
looted their wealth and they created many disasters for them. This 
support for dictators exists in the performance sheet of America. 
An example is its support of international and governmental 
terrorism. The fake and criminal Zionist regime, which has usurped 
Palestine, has been receiving support from America for tens of years. It
 kills people, destroys houses, oppresses and imprisons youth, women, 
men and children.
The Zionists have attacked Beirut, they have destroyed Sabra and 
Shatila and they have committed many other crimes. These measures have 
been recorded in the performance sheet of America. It launched an attack
 on Iraq and it killed tens of thousands of people. We do not know the 
exact figure. It is estimated that in recent years, the Americans have 
killed around one million Iraqi people directly or indirectly. 
I do not know the exact figure, but at least tens of thousands of 
people have been killed. Even killing one person is enough for this act 
to be condemned. In Afghanistan, they are committing crimes in a 
different way. 
They have established certain terrorist organizations for killing 
people. In a certain meeting, I mentioned the name of one of these 
organizations. They have established the well-known Blackwater company 
whose job is to kill, to create terror and to destroy people. It was the
 Americans who first established these extremist, murderous and takfiri 
groups. Of course, in the present time, this bullet which the Americans 
fired has ricocheted and has hit themselves. The government of America 
is such a government. 
The issue is not about the people of America. They are like other 
people. The issue is about the regime and the government of America. How
 can this face be beautified with make-up while these acts are in front 
of the eyes of the people of Iran? 
How did we people of Iran suffer from these crimes? Around 25, 26, 30
 years - from the coup d'etat launched on the 28th of Mordad of 1332 to 
the year 1357 - the people of Iran suffered from the oppressive regime 
of Mohammad Reza and after the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the 
people of Iran were faced with many oppressive, malevolent and evil 
acts. 
The people only remember the recent sanctions, but they started 
imposing sanctions from the beginning of the Revolution. In the 
beginning of the Revolution, the Americans supported anyone who wanted 
to do something against the Revolution. The Americans did not care if 
these people were leftist, rightist, military or non-military figures. 
They did their best to help anyone who had certain motives against the 
Islamic Revolution. These people took the form of ethnic groups and many
 other different forms. 
The last plot which the people of Iran saw with their own eyes was 
the fitna of the year 1388. The President of America shamelessly 
supported the provokers of fitna in Tehran. At the present time too, 
they are supporting them. This is the list of the malevolent acts that 
they have committed. Today, many of their evil intentions over which 
they used to draw a veil are gradually becoming clear.
This year, I said in Mashhad - in Samen al-Hujaj's holy shrine - on 
the first day of the year 1392, that I am alright with negotiations. I 
said that a number of officials and executives of both the previous 
administrations and the current administration think that we should 
negotiate with the Americans on the nuclear issue so that it can be 
resolved. I said, "Well now that you insist, you can go and negotiate 
with them particularly on this issue". But during the same speech in the
 beginning of the year, I said, "I am not optimistic. I do not oppose 
you, but I am not optimistic". 
Notice that the Americans constantly make ridiculous statements. A 
shameless American senator gets some money from the Zionists in order to
 go to the United States Senate and swear at the people of Iran in a 
peculiar way. They did not insult the people of Iran. Rather, they 
started swearing at them. The heads of their countries are the same 
people. They insult the people of Iran on different levels. Of course, 
the people of Iran slapped them across the face on the 22nd of Bahman. 
One of the reasons for this year's warmer gathering of the people is 
that they saw American officials behave in an audacious, mischievous, 
greedy, foul-mouthed and rude way. The religious zeal of the people drew
 them to the arena so that they can say to the Americans, "Do not make a
 mistake. It is us that you are facing". 
On the 22nd of Bahman, the people of Iran wanted to say to all of us -
 including this humble person, different officials and those diligent 
individuals who are really making great efforts in areas related to 
managing the country, whether those who are involved in foreign policy 
or those who are involved in domestic affairs - that we should feel 
comfortable because the people of Iran are standing firm, and they are 
present on the scene. They said to us that we should not feel weak in 
the face of the enemy. This was one of the great messages of the people 
of Iran. 
This is the same thing that I said in the beginning of the year. I 
said this both before and after my meeting in Mashhad. After that 
meeting, I repeatedly said that the nuclear issue is just an excuse for 
enmity. Even if one day the nuclear issue is resolved the way America 
wishes - although this is completely unlikely - then, another issue will
 follow it.
At the present time, the spokesmen of the American government bring 
up the issue of human rights, missiles, weapons and other such issues. I
 wonder why the Americans do not feel ashamed of speaking about human 
rights. If anyone in the world claims to support human rights, American 
officials should not make this claim considering all the shameful acts 
which exist in their performance sheet on the issue of human rights. 
Perhaps, people throughout the world do not know about 80, 90 acts out 
of the 100 acts that the Americans have committed on the issue of human 
rights. Nonetheless, the 10, 20 acts that they are aware of can form a 
voluminous and gloomy book. 
Everyone knows about the Guantanamo prison. Everyone saw the Abu 
Ghraib prison in Iraq. Everyone saw the Blackwater organization. 
Everyone knows about their attack on wedding caravans in Afghanistan. 
Everyone saw their support of those well-known terrorists who are proud 
of being terrorists. Everyone saw that the Americans broke their 
promises and that they lied. The entire world saw these things. 
Nevertheless, they continue to speak about human rights and they do not 
feel ashamed. Such extent of shamelessness in their behavior is really a
 strange phenomenon.
What our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our executive officials 
started to do will continue in the future. Iran will not go back on what
 it has promised to do. Of course, the officials can make their efforts 
and carry out their responsibilities, but the Americans are the enemies 
of the Islamic Revolution and the Islamic Republic. They are the enemies
 of the flag that you people have raised and this enmity will not end 
with such negotiations. 
The cure for confronting this enmity is only one thing which is 
relying on national power and national capability and strengthening the 
country from the inside as much as possible. No matter how hard we work 
on this area, it is always too little.
By Allah's favor, the policies on economy of resistance will be 
announced soon. I said this previously as well. The cure for solving the
 problems of the country lies in taking the path of economy of 
resistance which means reliance on the inside. 
We should not have our eye on other people's hands. We ourselves are 
capable and rich. We have both human sources of wealth - our human 
resources have few equals, if not no equal at all, in the world - and 
natural sources of wealth. Our sources of wealth are extraordinary. The 
world needs us and we do not need the world as much as it needs us. 
Today, the world revolves around oil and gas and we are in the top 
spot in this regard. Recently, the honorable executive officials 
delivered a report to me which showed that today, we have come first in 
the area of gas while, before that, we were second in the world ranking.
 Until recently - perhaps until one, one and a half year ago - we were 
second in the area of gas. But today, we have come first. These are our 
resources. 
And the world needs our resources. As you saw, a faint smile spread 
across their face. Foreign companies are rushing towards our country. 
They want to come to our country. How long can the Americans persist in 
their obstinacy? They should know that if we rely on our own 
capabilities, their resistance will shatter. As long as we have our eye 
on the hands of other people, as long as we follow up sanctions to see 
which ones are lifted and as long as we follow issues such as what such 
and such an American official said, we will get nowhere. 
We are a big country and we are a strong, civilized and talented 
people. Besides, we have many God-given sources of wealth. Our officials
 are sympathetic officials. They want to work and we, in turn, will help
 them and pray for them. But we also insist that they should rely on 
domestic forces. We ask the officials to trust the people and domestic 
forces. They should try to make this infinite and deep spring bubble up 
and effervesce. If this happens, all the closed doors will open. They 
should move forward and act in this way.
Our intentions are divine. We thank God that our goal is gaining the 
divine satisfaction and that we know the divine satisfaction lies in 
helping our country make progress and in helping our people achieve 
dignity. We are following this path and Allah the Exalted will help us 
as well. As I said, this holy ayah of the Holy Quran says, "If you help 
the cause of Allah, He will help you". If you help God - that is to say,
 if you help the religion of God - this will have two results: one is 
that "He will help you" and another is that He will "make firm your 
stand". He will not let you be forced to retreat. 
And you should 
know that by Allah's favor, the Americans and global arrogance will 
sooner or later be defeated in reaching their goals against Iran, the 
Islamic Republic and the people of Iran. You should know that God 
willing, the people of Iran will celebrate their victory in all arenas 
and in front of ill-wishers and jealous people. 
I hope that Allah the Exalted will bestow His blessings, guidance and
 assistance on all you dear people of Tabriz, on the people from other 
cities of Azerbaijan and on all the dear people of Iran.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

