
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Air Force Commanders and Personnel"/>
I would like to welcome you dear brothers, commanders and personnel 
of the Air Force of the Islamic Republic of Iran Army. I congratulate 
you on this auspicious day and this great memory. I would like to 
express my gratitude to those people who created the event of the 19th 
of Bahman. This event was very sensitive and important. I thank the 
honorable commander in this meeting for his report and I express my 
sincere gratitude for the meaningful and expressive song which was 
performed in this meeting.
A number of events are greater than what they seem to be. Sometimes, 
an event develops to such an extent that even those who created it do 
not expect this development. In the Holy Quran, God says, "Like a seed 
which sends forth its blade, then makes it strong, it then becomes 
thick, and it stands on its own stem, filling the sowers with wonder and
 delight" [The Holy Quran, 48: 29]. God mentions certain characteristics
 when portraying the companions of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and the 
believers during the early Islamic era. He likens them to a seed which 
sprouts, gradually gains strength and grows in such a way that even the 
farmers - those who sow the seeds - become astonished. 
The event of the 19th of Bahman was like this. On that day, one could
 not see the many dimensions of this event. These dimensions became 
clear gradually. On a larger scale, the Revolution itself was like this.
 The day our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) began the movement in the year 
1341, no one could think of this great scope and this astonishing 
product, but this event happened. Of course, there are certain reasons 
why an event becomes blessed, whose discussion is beyond the scope of 
our meeting.
In any case, the event of the 19th of Bahman was a blessed event. One
 of the things which the analysts of this event have ignored is the role
 of this event in bringing about independence. Where did it exert such 
influence? It exerted such influence in the army - that is to say, part 
of the social class which endured the most sufferings because of the 
domination and interference of foreigners during the time of taghut. The
 event of the 19th of Bahman awakened the feeling of independence in 
this organization. It awakened this feeling in the entire army - first 
in the air force and later on in other branches of the army. 
This event showed soldiers that one can free oneself from the 
influence of interfering and transgressing foreigners. This was the 
reason why I was saying to the friends in this meeting that the first 
place the self-sufficiency jihad emerged in, was the air force. It 
developed later on in the entire army. This spirit of independence and 
self-confidence was important for the army and the armed forces. It 
continued to be important until today and it will be important in the 
future as well. 
I would like to say this in parentheses - the main point that I want 
to discuss is something else. In order to be able to show your 
competence in confronting threats against your position, which is the 
position of preserving the aerial security of the country, you should 
have a feeling of independence from others and reliance on your own 
capacities. 
If you have such a feeling, talents begin to emerge. Of course, they 
have emerged until today and they will continue to emerge in the future 
as well. The issue of independence is an important issue for the entire 
country and the Revolution. Independence was one of the bases of the 
Islamic Revolution and the Islamic Republic. The slogan of 
"independence", together with the slogan of "freedom" was, is and will 
be one of the most important slogans of the Revolution.
Notice that after the defeat of the method of direct colonialism - 
which was common in the past and through which they colonized countries 
in a direct way - it became obsolete and it was replaced with 
neocolonialism. In neocolonialism, interfering powers did not directly 
involve themselves in controlling colonized countries. Rather, their 
agents and those who listened to these powers and who were dependent on 
them were brought to power. Because governments which rely on the 
outside cannot rule without dictatorship, they ruled in a dictatorial 
way and they safeguarded the interests of foreign powers.
This was neocolonialism. Fighting against dictatorship will get 
nowhere without fighting against those foreign powers which are behind 
domestic dictators. The same is true of today. If a people who are 
exhausted with the dictatorship of their rulers spark an uprising and 
fight with domestic dictators, but compromise with the foreign 
imperialists who are behind these dictators, the fate of this revolution
 and its officials and managers is either failure or treachery. Their 
fate will be limited to either of these two things. They, their 
revolution and their country will either be betrayed or if they will not
 be betrayed, they will be defeated and they will be deleted from the 
scene.
As we witnessed in a number of the revolutions which were conducted 
in recent years, people fought with domestic dictators, but they showed 
negligence in confronting the force which was supporting the dictators 
or they thought of compromising with this force. The result of this is 
what you see today. If you fight with dictators, but you compromise with
 arrogant powers, this will get you nowhere. Those revolutions will 
succeed and achieve victory which see and fight against the interfering 
power behind the dictators.
When our youth went and captured the Den of Espionage and when they 
dealt a humiliating blow to America, Imam said, "This is a revolution 
which is greater than the first one". This is the reason why he said 
this. The first Revolution was a great and unique revolution, but in the
 second revolution, the people of Iran showed that they know the next 
layer of domination, calamity and disaster and that they can confront 
and fight against it. 
One can understand the issue of independence from this movement of 
the people. Independence means that a country knows the interfering 
power and that it confronts and stands up to it. Independence does not 
mean behaving in a wrong and harsh way towards the entire world. Rather,
 it means confronting a power which wants to interfere, command and take
 away the dignity and honor of a people for the sake of its interests. 
This is the meaning of independence. 
Who is the enemy of the independence of a people? Foreign and 
interfering powers are the enemy of this independence. It is they who 
are afraid of the feeling of independence in a country. They are afraid 
of this feeling and they try to weaken it in people, in their leaders 
and those who guide them.
This is the reason why their propaganda networks engage in 
discouraging nations from pursuing independence. They say in their 
propaganda that the political, cultural and economic independence of 
countries contradicts their progress. You have heard what they say. 
Those who are familiar with global propaganda have heard these things as
 well. They promote these ideas in think tanks as philosophical ideas 
and some people inside different countries - including ours - promote 
these ideas on their behalf. 
These people say, "If a country wants to be among advanced countries 
in the world, it has no option other than suppressing the feeling of 
independence in itself because if a country wants to be independent and 
completely rely on its own interests, this contradicts their desire to 
be among global advanced countries". Well, this is completely wrong and 
it has been fabricated by those who are opposed to the independence of 
peoples. 
The hope and goal of interfering powers is to safeguard their own 
interests by interfering in the affairs of all countries. They do not 
care if the interests of countries are jeopardized and trampled upon. 
They persist in interfering the way they used to persist in interfering 
in the affairs of our country during the time of taghut. They used to 
determine who we should and should not establish relations with, who we 
should sell our oil to, how much we should sell, how we should consume 
it and who should and should not undertake a sensitive responsibility. 
They directly interfered in such affairs. 
In such conditions, a country becomes an instrument and a tool for 
safeguarding their interests and its own interests will be completely 
forgotten. When this happens, the goal of leaders and rulers of this 
country will no longer be to defend national interests. Rather, their 
goal will be to further the interests of interfering powers. 
Independence halts and prevents this wrong and treacherous trend. This 
is the meaning of independence for a country. 
Independence does not mean breaking off one's relations with other 
countries. Rather, it means building a dam against the influence of 
other countries so that they cannot overshadow the interests of our 
country and our people by their own interests. This is the meaning of 
independence and this is the most important goal for any country. 
What can bring about independence for our Islamic Revolution is 
highlighting the principles of the Revolution in a forthright and clear 
way. The principles and values of the Revolution should be highlighted 
in a forthright and clear way, as our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) did this. 
From the beginning of the revolutionary movement, Imam expressed his 
viewpoints in an outspoken and unambiguous way. From the beginning, he 
rejected the taghuti, hereditary, oppressive and monarchic regime and he
 did not give it any consideration. 
It was clear from the beginning that Imam was after forming a popular
 government. Imam used to say in an outspoken way that hereditary 
monarchies, dictatorial regimes and those individual regimes which rely 
on the will of a single individual are condemned. Imam used to say these
 things in an outspoken way and he did not veil his viewpoints. Imam 
openly said that an Islamic government, one that is based on Islamic 
thoughts and values, should handle affairs and he did not draw a veil 
over this. Imam did not show any consideration on the issue of 
confronting the dangerous Zionist network which wants to rule over the 
entire world. He did not hide anything on this issue and he openly 
adopted an anti-Zionist position.
Imam openly adopted a position against the Zionist regime which is a 
fake and usurping regime and which wants to rule over the oppressed 
people of Palestine. He did not show any consideration and he did not 
draw a veil over any of these. Notice that these are the principles and 
the foundations. Imam did not conceal the fact that we are opposed to 
arrogance. Arrogance means the international system which is reliant on 
dividing the world into the oppressed and the oppressor. Imam decisively
 rejected this. 
This arrogant system is completely manifested and represented by the 
current regime and government of the United States of America. Imam 
openly adopted a position against America. Our position against America 
is not based on the people of America or on racist outlooks. The issue 
is not this. The issue is that the behavior, nature and conduct of the 
government of the United States of America is based on interference and 
imperialism. 
Imam adopted an open and clear position against this. This is the 
reason why the Revolution continues to move forward on its true rail of 
principles and guidelines even after the passage of 35 years. The 
Revolution did not change, it did not change its principles, it did not 
change its path and it did not change its slogans. This is very 
important. 
The resistance of other revolutions crumbles in the face of the 
storms which strikes them. Many of these revolutions either change their
 principles and path or they will be completely destroyed and 
annihilated. From the first day it emerged, the Islamic Revolution has 
preserved and moved towards its goals, it has made astonishing 
achievements in different areas and it is changing [Iran] from being an 
abandoned and ineffectual country in the world to becoming a great and 
influential regional power in international policies. It is showing this
 to the entire world. 
All nations throughout the world know the people of Iran to be a 
brave, honest, intelligent and resisting people despite the fact that 
many efforts have been made and many propaganda tools have been used 
against the Islamic Republic. For a while, the propaganda and political 
networks of the enemies of the people of Iran focused all their efforts 
on creating Iranophobia. Some of them focused their efforts on creating 
Islamophobia and some of them on Iranophobia. Nevertheless, the 
popularity of the people of Iran increased among nations throughout the 
world. 
Today, not only the masses of the people but also those outstanding 
personalities who do not have malicious motives have such a viewpoint 
about the people of Iran. If you take a look at their statements, you 
will see that this is their opinion about the people of Iran: a 
resisting, intelligent and patient people. This is the way they look at 
the people of Iran. This is the result of their Iranophobia policies. 
Nations are not anxious about the Islamic Republic and the people of 
Iran. Rather, they are anxious about the domination of America. It is 
America that is known for bullying, interfering in the affairs of other 
countries and waging wars. Peoples throughout the world know America to 
be a warmongering and belligerent government which interferes in the 
affairs of other countries. It is America which nations are intimidated 
by and which they hate. 
By Allah's favor, the Islamic Republic has become more enlightened 
and the people of Iran have become more dignified on a daily basis. And 
this will continue in the future. The secret to the survival of the 
Islamic Republic on the rail of the Revolution and the guidelines of our
 magnanimous Imam, has been this outspokenness. 
This candor and outspokenness should not be lost at all. The 
positions of the Islamic Republic in the face of its opponents, friends 
and enemies should be clear positions. Tactics can be changed, methods 
can be changed, but principles should remain strong and solid. This is 
the secret to the solidity of the Revolution and the progress of the 
country. 
Who are the enemies of our Revolution today? The enemies of the 
Revolution are a few corrupt powers which are notorious in the world. 
These powers are the enemies of the people of Iran. And the friends of 
the people of Iran are those nations who have heard the message of the 
Revolution and the Islamic Republic.
Of course, it is possible that some people have not heard these 
messages, but anyone who has heard the slogans of the Islamic Republic, 
who has witnessed its resistance and who has experienced and understood 
the issue of showing resistance and being oppressed, is the supporter of
 the Islamic Republic. The Islamic Republic means the people of Iran and
 the Iranian nation. The people are not separate from the Islamic 
Republic. This is the secret to the solidity and power of the Islamic 
Republic.
One of the things which American politicians say in their speeches to
 our officials is that they do not intend to change the regime of Iran. 
First, they are lying. If they could, they would not hesitate even for a
 moment to destroy the foundation of the Islamic Republic. Second, they 
cannot. Arrogant regimes can only topple those governments which are not
 reliant on the masses of the people. 
The Islamic Republic of Iran is reliant on the faith, kindness and 
willpower of the people. Which country do you know that holds 
commemoration ceremonies for its revolution with the presence of the 
people on the streets and with powerful slogans even after the passage 
of tens of years? By Allah's favor, you will witness that on the 22nd of
 Bahman, the people of Iran will once more show their presence, their 
great strength and national power in all cities. 
What is important is that the people of Iran know the secret to their
 success is resistance, and thankfully, they know this. What is 
important is that they know the way to achieve security is showing 
national power and national strength. National power is manifested by 
certain things and the people will show this power in their great 
demonstrations, their orientations and their rallies such as the 22nd of
 Bahman rallies and other such rallies in different elections. They will
 show this presence through scientific achievements and through their 
support of the Islamic Republic. This is the important point. What 
preserves the security of the country is showing national power. When 
the people show off their national power to the enemy, he cannot do 
anything.
Unfortunately, today the enemies make certain statements at different
 stages. This is a lesson for our people. The people of Iran should 
follow up the negotiations which are conducted in these days. They 
should listen to and follow up the rude statements of American 
politicians and they should know these politicians. 
Some individuals want to change the people's opinion about the enmity
 of the enemy. The people should not listen to these individuals and 
they should see the enmity and hypocritical behavior of the enemy. In 
private meetings with the officials of the country, the American 
officials say certain things, but as soon as they leave, they say 
certain other things. The people of Iran should see and pay attention to
 the hypocritical behavior of our enemy and his evil and malevolent 
motives. They should realize that a country should always preserve its 
domestic power. 
This is a piece of advice which we have always offered to officials. 
Only one thing can solve the problems of the country which is paying 
attention to domestic capacities - thankfully, these capacities are many
 and countless - and utilizing these capacities in a wise way. 
Fortunately, the executive officials in charge of economic issues have 
paid attention to this issue and they have reached the conclusion that 
this is the only way.
The way to solve the economic problems of the country - this set of 
problems - is not to turn our attention to the outside, to do something 
to make sanctions be lifted and to adopt other such measures. 
Fortunately, the officials in charge of economic affairs of the country 
have paid attention to this issue. The way to solve problems is to turn 
our attention to the inside and to strengthen the domestic 
infrastructures of the economy. Our officials want to do this and by 
Allah's favor, they will move forward and achieve success on this path. 
Our hopes cannot be pinned on the enemy. The enemy cannot be expected
 to help us. The Americans say in some of their statements and 
sophistries that they are the friends of the people of Iran. They are 
lying and this can be understood from their actions. They threaten Iran 
and then they expect the Islamic Republic to decrease its defense 
capabilities. Is this not ridiculous? Is this not silly? While they 
issue threats, they say that we should decrease our defense 
capabilities. But this is not what we will do. By Allah's favor, 
different officials, different sectors and the armed forces will 
increase their defense capabilities on a daily basis.
What saves the country is reliance on domestic power and attention to
 the inside both in economical areas and in different social, political 
and cultural areas. By Allah's favor, the policies on economy of 
resistance will be announced in the near future. By Allah's favor, when 
this is done, the necessary infrastructures will be built and the 
necessary tasks and efforts for creating an economy of resistance - 
which is based on the resistance of the people - will be carried out and
 the people will continue their path. 
What is important is that all of our people should preserve their 
unity and that officials and outstanding personalities should not let 
different peripheral issues sideline the main goal. Today, the main goal
 of the movement of the people of Iran is achieving inborn power and 
resistance in the face of opposing and hostile storms. During the past 
35 years, there have been many storms, but thankfully, the people have 
stood firm and have counteracted the moves of the enemies over the 
course of these many years. From now on too, the people should and will 
be able to - by Allah's favor - counteract these moves.
All the people should preserve their unity. Unity, unanimity and 
solidarity should increase among the people and officials. All the 
officials and managers of the country should trust the people and the 
people should trust the officials. 
A number of people may like to make criticisms. Well, they can make 
criticisms, but their criticisms should be fair. Considering the fact 
that it is only a few months the administration has taken charge of the 
country, we should give executive officials time so that, by Allah's 
favor, they can move things forward in a firm and powerful way. Critics 
should pay attention to this point and they should behave towards the 
administration with equanimity and executive officials should do the 
same. Everyone should respect one another and everyone should behave in a
 polite way towards one another. 
We have certain enemies and these enemies have certain agents inside 
the country. This should not be ignored. We should not allow the 
enemies' agents inside the country to take advantage of weak points and 
to create disorder. By Allah's favor, all of us together should move 
forward on the path of our magnanimous Imam and on the path of the power
 of our country. 
Allah the Exalted will bestow success on our people. By Allah's 
favor, things will move forward in the best way possible. By Allah's 
favor and grace, the people of Iran will achieve victory over their 
enemies whether on the nuclear issue or on different other issues.
I hope that Allah the Exalted bestows success on all of you so that 
you can carry out your responsibilities wherever you are - whether in 
the Air Force, in the Islamic Republic of Iran Army, in the Armed Forces
 in general or among the masses of the people. I hope that, God willing,
 all of us can carry out our responsibilities and build a desirable 
future for the country, the Islamic Republic and our dear people.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

