
<meta year="2014" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Officials and Participants of Conference on Islamic Unity"/>
I would like to congratulate all of you dear audience who are present
 in this meeting, the dear guests of Unity Week, the ambassadors of 
Islamic countries and all the honorable officials who have accepted 
heavy responsibilities in the country, on the occasion of the auspicious
 birthday anniversaries of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and his outstanding
 grandson - Imam Sadiq (a.s.). I would like to extend my congratulations
 to all the people of Iran, all Muslims and all liberated people 
throughout the world.
This auspicious birthday is the source of many blessings which have 
been bestowed on the lives of human beings over the course of many 
centuries. It has helped nations, peoples and humanity in general to 
achieve the best human, intellectual and mental qualities. It has helped
 them to create a lofty civilization and to achieve bright prospects for
 a better life. On this birthday anniversary, what is important for the 
world of Islam and the Islamic community is to pay attention to the Holy
 Prophet's (s.w.a.) expectations of the Islamic community and to try 
hard to meet these expectations. 
The happiness of the world of Islam lies in this and nothing else. 
Islam emerged for the liberation of humanity- both liberation from the 
suppression and pressures of oppressive and dictatorial regimes which 
have ruled over all people and in order to form a just government for 
the entire humanity, and liberation from deceptive thoughts and 
illusions which dominate the lives of people and which make their lives 
deviate from the right path.
At a time when Islam was about to emerge, the Commander of the 
Faithful (peace and greetings be upon him) described the environment in 
which people were living as an environment of "fitna": 
"At that time, people had fallen into fitna, whereby the rope of 
religion had been broken" [Nahjul Balaghah, Sermon 2]. Fitna means a 
dusty climate in which one cannot see anything. In such a climate, one 
cannot see the path and he does not know what to do. This was the 
conditions of the people who lived in that difficult area. 
The same conditions dominated - in a different way - the lives of the
 people in great countries and civilizations which existed at that time.
 It is not the case that we can think the people who were living in the 
Arabian Peninsula at a time when Islamic was about to emerge had 
terrible conditions while other people living in other areas were happy.
 The domination of cruel and oppressive regimes, their indifference 
towards the position of human beings and human principles and the 
outbreak of disastrous wars which were waged by powers for the sake of 
power had destroyed the lives of people. History shows that the two 
well-known civilizations of those days - that is to say, the Persian 
Sassanid civilization and the Roman civilization - were in such terrible
 conditions that it makes one pity the masses of the people who were 
living in those societies. The living conditions of those people were 
terrible and they were living in captivity. 
In such conditions, Islam came and freed people. This freedom first 
manifests itself in the hearts and souls of people. When one feels that 
he is free and when he feels the need to break chains, the forces inside
 him will be influenced by this feeling and then he can achieve social 
freedom if he shows determination and if he moves forward. Islam did 
this for people. The same message that Islam delivered at that time 
exists today in the world of Islam and in other parts of the world. The 
enemies of freedom kill the thought of freedom in people. When there is 
no thought of freedom, the movement towards freedom will either slow 
down or stop. 
Today, what we Muslims should do is to try to achieve the kind of 
freedom that Islam wants. The independence of Muslim nations, the 
establishment of popular governments throughout the world of Islam, the 
participation of all people in making decisions and determining fates 
and their movement on the basis of Islamic sharia are things which 
liberate nations. Of course, Muslim nations feel that they need this 
movement today. This feeling exists throughout the world of Islam and 
without a doubt, it will finally achieve results. 
If outstanding personalities - whether political, scientific and 
religious personalities - in Muslim countries carry out their 
responsibilities in the proper way, then the future of the world of 
Islam will be a bright one. Muslims are hopeful about this future. 
Today, the world of Islam feels that it is awake. It is exactly at this 
point that the enemies of Islam - those people who are opposed to 
Islamic Awakening, independence of nations and the domination of God's 
religion in all countries - enter the arena. It is exactly at this point
 that all kinds of tricks are used for creating obstacles in the way of 
Islamic societies. And the most important trick that they use is 
creating discord.
It is 65 years now that the world of arrogance has been trying with 
all its power to impose the existence of the Zionist regime on Muslim 
nations and to make them accept this regime. But it has failed. We 
should not look at some countries and governments which are willing to 
act against their national interests in order to safeguard the interests
 of their foreign friends - who are the enemies of Islam - and to 
consign Islamic interests to oblivion. Peoples are opposed to the 
presence of the Zionists.
It is 65 years now that they have been trying to erase the memory of 
Palestine, but they have failed. During the 33-day war in Lebanon and 
during the 22-day war and - for the second time - the eight-day war in 
Gaza which were waged in recent years, Muslim nations and the Islamic 
Ummah showed that they are alive. The Islamic Ummah showed that despite 
the investment of America and other western powers, it has managed to 
preserve its identity, to slap the fake and imposed Zionist regime 
across the face and to frustrate the allies of oppressive Zionists who 
did their best during this time to preserve this imposed, oppressive and
 criminal regime. The Islamic Ummah showed that it has not forgotten 
about Palestine. This is a very important issue.
It is in such conditions that the enemy is focusing all its efforts 
on making the Islamic Ummah forget about Palestine. How do they want to 
do this? They want to do this by creating discord, waging domestic wars,
 promoting deviant extremism in the name of Islam, religion and Islamic 
sharia. They want a group of people to say takfiri things against 
Muslims. The existence of these takfiri orientations which have emerged 
in the world of Islam is good news for arrogance and the enemies of the 
world of Islam. It is these takfiri orientations that attract the 
attention of Muslims towards insignificant issues instead of letting 
them pay attention to the truth about the existence of the malevolent 
Zionist regime. 
This is the exact opposite of what Islam wants. Islam has asked 
Muslims to be "strong against unbelievers, (but) compassionate amongst 
each other" [The Holy Quran, 48, 29]. Muslims should be strong against 
the enemies of religion. They should stand firm and they should not be 
influenced by the enemies. Being "strong against unbelievers" is the 
clear message of this ayah. Muslims should be compassionate towards one 
another, they should stay together and join hands and they should hold 
fast to the rope which Allah stretches out for them. This is the command
 of Islam. 
Now what happens if an orientation emerges which divides Muslims into
 believers and unbelievers, which targets a group of people as 
unbelievers and which pits Muslims against one another? Who can doubt 
the role of arrogance and the security services of arrogant and 
malevolent governments in creating, supporting and enriching these 
orientations and in equipping them with weapons? These arrogant powers 
sit and plan for this. The world of Islam should attend to this issue 
because it is a grave danger.
Unfortunately, a number of Muslim governments unwittingly add fuel to
 the fire of this discord. They do not understand that fueling this 
discord will kindle a fire which will burn them as well. This is what 
arrogance wants: they want a group of Muslims to wage a war against 
another group of Muslims.
Those who give rise to this war are people who benefit from the money
 provided by puppet rulers. These puppet rulers give them money and 
weapons in order to pit people in such and such a country against one 
another. This move has been reinforced by arrogance in the past three, 
four years during which a wave of Islamic Awakening has emerged in a 
number of Islamic and Arabic countries. They want to do this in order to
 overshadow Islamic Awakening. By making this move, they are pitting 
Muslims against one another.
Moreover, the propaganda networks of the enemies are projecting an 
ugly image of Islam for public opinion throughout the world. They are 
doing this by magnifying events. What do people think of Islam when 
media networks show a person who is devouring the liver of another 
person in the name of Islam? The enemies of Islam have planned this. 
These are not things that happen all of a sudden and out of the blue.
 These are things for which many plans have been devised over a long 
period of time. There are different policies and spy rings behind these 
moves. There is big money behind these moves. Muslims should confront 
any phenomenon which is against their unity. This is a great 
responsibility for all of us. Both Shia and Sunni Muslims, and different
 groups which exist among Shia and Sunni Muslims should shoulder this 
responsibility. 
Unity means reliance on common points. We have many common points. 
Muslims' common points are more than their disagreements and therefore, 
they should rely on them. The main responsibility in this regard falls 
on the shoulders of outstanding personalities - whether political, 
scientific or religious personalities. Religious scholars in the world 
of Islam should prevent Muslims from creating sectarian and religious 
discord. Academic scholars should help students understand that today, 
unity is the most important issue in the world of Islam. The most 
important issue is unity for the sake of reaching goals. These goals are
 achieving political independence, establishing religious democracy and 
observing divine rules in Islamic societies. 
Islam invites people to freedom, dignity and honor. This is an 
obligation and responsibility today. Political personalities too should 
know that their dignity and honor lies in their reliance on Muslim 
peoples, not on foreigners and those who are arch enemies of Islamic 
societies. 
One day, arrogant powers dominated people everywhere in Islamic 
regions. One day, policies carried out by America and before that 
England and other countries, dominated the lives of people in Islamic 
regions. Nations gradually managed to liberate themselves from this 
direct domination. In the present time, the enemies want to replace this
 direct domination, which they imposed during the era of imperialism, 
with indirect domination - that is to say, political, economic and 
cultural domination. Of course, in some areas they are imposing this 
direct domination again. As you see, a number of European countries want
 to create the same situation which existed in the past in Africa. 
The path is Islamic Awakening. The path is awareness about the 
position of Muslim nations. Muslim nations have many resources, they 
have sensitive geographical locations, they have a very valuable 
historical legacy and they have unique economic resources. If Muslims 
collect themselves, find their true identity, rely on themselves and 
extend the hand of friendship, then this region will be an outstanding 
and enlightened region and the world of Islam will witness dignity, 
greatness and honor.
By Allah's favor, this is what will happen in the future. One can see
 the signs of this future such as the victory of the Islamic Revolution 
in Iran and the establishment and stability of the Islamic Republic in 
this sensitive region. 
It is 35 years now that arrogant regimes - including America and 
other powers - have been doing their best to work against the Islamic 
Republic and the people of Iran. Despite this, the people of Iran and 
the Islamic Republic are becoming stronger, more rooted, more powerful 
and more influential on a daily basis. By Allah's favor, this strength, 
this stability and this power will increase in the future. 
In the world of Islam too, one sees that the awareness of people and 
youth about Islam and the future of Islam has increased compared to the 
past. In some countries, people are much more aware than they were in 
the past. Of course, the enemy is making some efforts, but if we look 
carefully and vigilantly, we will see that - by Allah's favor - this 
wave of Islamic movement is going forward.
God's mercy be upon our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) who opened up this 
path for us. He taught us that we should rely on God, ask Him alone for 
help and be hopeful about the future. Then, we moved forward on this 
path and by Allah's favor, we will continue to do this. I hope that 
Islam and Muslims achieve victory and I ask God to bestow His mercy and 
forgiveness on the martyrs of this bright path.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

