
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Speech at IRGC Navy Base"/>
Today, when I notice that the Navy of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps has developed and turned into a strong and disciplined force as a result of adequate training and great efforts made by competent commanders and dedicated personnel, I feel grateful to Almighty Allah. Indeed, when the trust in the Almighty is accompanied by efforts and innovation, which is a divine blessing conferred on mankind, such good results should be expected.
The major problem facing mankind today is that wise, resolute and pious people do not rise up against the evil powers, which are seeking to dominate nations on various pretexts and excuses.
Such evil, expansionist and domination-seeking powers have always existed in the history of mankind. If pious, strong-willed and brave servants of Allah had not stood up to such powers in the past, the condition of mankind would be much worse today.
Indeed, if there is morality and spirituality in the world today, if there is respect for human values, and if there is faith in Almighty Allah, this is all due to the resistance and perseverance of great men in the history of mankind, such as the Master of Martyrs, Hussein ibn Ali (peace and greetings be upon him).
Although he and his companions were all martyred by the evil power of their time, his noble thoughts and his lofty ideals prevailed and have since attracted more followers. 
The same situation also exists today. Thus, broad-minded and wise people with strong resolve and determination are expected to stand against the bullying, covetousness and expansionist goals of the enemies of humanity, and this can be done today more easily than in the past.
It is true that the evil powers are nowadays armed with ultramodern weapons, but it is also a fact that nations are more aware of their power than they were in the past. Therefore, they are now more prepared and in a better position to resist domination by these powers.
What the old colonial powers did in the 18th and 19th century, the United States is presently trying to do in the Middle East. The old colonial powers used to enter other countries on the pretext of helping those nations to thrive and become developed, but their real intention was to plunder the national wealth and natural resources of those countries. This is what they did in most countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America and, thus, imposed further backwardness on those nations.
The United States currently aims to do the same thing that the former colonial powers did, but on the pretext of promoting democracy and human rights and fighting terrorism! However, achieving this goal is very difficult for Washington, because nations are much more aware of their power today than they were in the past.
Undoubtedly, any U.S. military operation in this region will cause a great disaster, since many homes will be destroyed and many innocent people will be killed. But it is also certain that the aggressor will get stuck and entangled in this quagmire, and this will accelerate its downfall.
The blows that the aggressors will ultimately receive will surely be much heavier than the blows they inflict to the oppressed nations. Nevertheless, it is also the duty of the Islamic world and other countries to prevent the occurrence of such disasters. 
The model presented to us by the Islamic Revolution is one of resistance, and this model has so far proved very successful. Over the past 25 years, there have been various threats to our nation and Islamic system, but the Iranian people have been able to counteract all these threats through their resistance and strong will and determination. As a result, our Islamic revolution and system have become more invulnerable as the time has passed.
This is a great achievement for our nation. Indeed, aggressors are always forced to retreat in the face of the resistance of strong-willed and resolute nations.
The awareness and commitment of our faithful and competent military personnel, who have combined religious beliefs with scientific knowledge and discipline, is an outcome of the strong resolve that was infused into the Iranian nation by the Islamic revolution under the great leadership of Imam Khomeini.
Fortunately, the efforts so far made by your competent commanders have yielded good results, and this is indicated by the performance of the IRGC Navy. However, you should still try to increase your knowledge and expertise and always be prepared to safeguard our country's sea borders, ports and islands. 
I pray to Almighty Allah to confer His blessings on the exalted martyrs of this force and other IRGC forces as well as all the noble martyrs that have been offered by the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic and the Iranian nation.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
