
<meta year="2015" title="Strong economy, developing science and revolutionary spirit"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings be upon our Master, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa Muhammad and upon his immaculate, pure and chosen household, especially the one remaining with Allah on earth.
I would like to welcome all you dear brothers and sisters who took the trouble to participate in this meeting from different cities and who enlightened our Hussainiyah with your presence and your feelings. I welcome all you particularly the dear brothers and sisters who have travelled from distant cities and I hope that each and every one of you brothers and sisters will benefit from divine mercy and blessings.

These days have coincided with the auspicious days of the month of Dhul-Qada and the memorable days of the month of Shahrivar. The blessings of the month of Dhul-Qada are many and the memories of the month of Shahrivar are meaningful and significant. The auspicious month of Dhul-Qada is the first haraam month. The 11th day of this month is the birthday anniversary of Hazrat Thamen ul-Hujjaj (thousands of greetings and praise be upon him) and the beginning of the ten-day Veneration Celebration. The 23rd day of this month is the day to visit the shrine of Hazrat Thamen al-Hujjaj (peace and greetings be upon him). The 25th day of this month is Dahwa al-Arz which is a blessed day. The 15th of Dhul-Qada eve is one of the blessed nights of the year when certain religious acts are practiced. Dhul-Qada Sundays are repentance days.
On these days, there is a religious act that the late Hajj Mirza Jawad Aqa Maleki quotes in al-Muraqibat. In this book, he quotes the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) as saying to his companions, "'Which one of you is willing to repent?' Everyone said that they are willing. Apparently, it was the month of Dhul-Qada." According to this narration, Hazrat says, "You should say this daily prayer on Sundays of this month." What I mean is that the month of Dhul-Qada - which is the first haraam month - is full of blessings. There are very blessed and auspicious days and nights in the next three months. Therefore, we should benefit from them.
The month of Shahrivar is also a memorable month. On the 17th of Shahrivar of the year 1357 - a few months before the victory of the Islamic Revolution - the agents of the taghuti regime fired a volley of bullets on innocent people who had no refuge. This happened in Tehran's Shohadaye Square. In this event, a large number of people were murdered in that square. We do not still know how many were exactly murdered, but there were many. In the month of Shahrivar, the president and prime minister of the country - Shahid Rajai and Shahid Bahonar - were cruelly assassinated. In Shahrivar, Shahid Ayatollah Qodusi - the prosecutor general of the country - was assassinated. In Shahrivar, the Friday prayer leader of Tabriz [Shahid Sayyid Asadullah Madani] was assassinated. Again in Shahrivar - on the last day of this month - the ba'athist regime of Saddam attacked our country. These are astonishing, meaningful and significant memories. The American regime was behind all these events. American agents either directly helped, or supported these acts or at least closed their eyes to them.
Our youth should not forget these memories. One of my concerns is that our young generation - that is thankfully wise, insightful, motivated, prepared and revolutionary and that is in the middle of the arena - gradually forgets these important events and these instructive lessons of the contemporary era. This is because of our laziness - the laziness of us organizations in charge. These events should not become outdated. The historical memory of a people should not become weak. If our youth throughout the country do not know about these events and if they cannot analyze them, they will make a mistake in knowing their country and the future. Youth should correctly understand these events. They should know what happened and who did them. Youth should know these things.
Another assassination like the one on the 17th of Shahrivar took place in Enqelab Square. This event is usually ignored. During this event, the taghuti agents attacked the people. An American general [Robert Huyser] - who on the last days of the former regime had come to Iran to save it from the Revolution - is quoted as saying, "I gathered the Shah's generals and asked them to lower their gun barrels." On many occasions, the Shah's soldiers used to fire into the air in order to scare the people, but this person asked the Shah's generals to lower their gun barrels and to aim at the people. As a result, the soldiers executed the order in Enqelab Square by lowering their gun barrels and aiming at the people. They martyred a large number of the people, but it was not effective because the people did not retreat. They continued their movement.
After that, one of the commanders of the Shah's army - Gharabaghi who was the commander-in-chief of the army at that time - went to Huyser and said to him, "Your order was not effective because it could not make the people move back." In his memoirs, Huyser writes, "What childish analyses they have. What do they mean?" He goes on to say, "Gharabaghi expected the issue to be over with one attempt, but this should continue. They should massacre the people wherever they see them."
This is America. America completely ruled over the country for 25 years. These were the orders that it used to issue to the Shah's generals. The Americans had the final say in Iran in economic, political and security matters and in the area of foreign policy. This is the complete rule of America during the time of the taghuti regime. Such a regime used to rule over our country. Its officers, its minister of finance, its minister of defense, its prime minister and even the Shah himself obeyed America unquestioningly! Such a regime used to rule over our country.
America ruled over our country like Pharaoh: "Truly Pharaoh elated himself in the land and broke up its people into sections, depressing a group among them. Their sons he slew, but he kept alive their females" [The Holy Quran, 28: 4]. They used to behave like this towards the people, but Musa of the time appeared and overthrew this Pharaoh and his followers. This is what the Revolution did. One year and two months after the event of Shahrivar - that is to say, in Aban of the year 1358 - the youth who followed Imam's (r.a.) line conquered America's Den of Espionage. They imprisoned the Americans with their hands tied and their eyes blindfolded. This time, Musa defeated Pharaoh like this. Now, some people ask, "Why do the Americans show hostility towards Iran?" Well, this is the reason. Iran was completely in America's fist and hands. The entire country moved with the willpower of the Americans, but Imam (r.a.) came and threw America out with the help of the people. Naturally, they should be our enemies and they should show such enmity. In the present time too, they are showing enmity.
Our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) said, "America is the Great Satan." This phrase is a very meaningful one. The boss of all shaitans in the world is Iblis, but according to the Holy Quran, the only thing that Iblis can do is to tempt human beings and nothing more. He tempts and deceives people, but America kills, imposes sanctions and behaves in a hypocritical way as well as tempting and deceiving. He raises the flag of human rights and claims to support human rights, but ever so often, an innocent and unarmed person rolls in their blood and is murdered by the American police, let alone other crimes and disasters committed by them.
And this was their behavior in Iran during the time of the taghuti regime: they used to wage wars and create warmongering groups like the ones that are busy committing crimes in Iraq and Syria in the present time. These are the things that America does! Now, some people insist on ornamenting this Great Satan - who has qualities worse than those of Iblis - and on portraying him as an angel. Why do they do that? Even if we exclude religion and revolutionary spirit for a moment, what about loyalty to the interests of the country? What about reason? What reason and what conscience allows one to choose a power like America as one's trusted friend and as a liberating angel? They are like this. This is the truth of the matter.
They dress elegantly, they wear a tie, they use perfume and they appear in an elegant manner to deceive naive individuals. This is the truth behind the regime of America. This is how they behave towards us and they behave in the same manner towards other countries. The great people of Iran threw this Great Satan out of the country. So, we should not allow him to come back. Now that we have thrown him out of the door, we should not allow him come in through the window. We should not let him penetrate because his enmity will not come to an end.
After the JCPOA [Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action] and the deal whose fate is still unclear, they are busy hatching plots against Iran in the U.S. Congress. The news that we receive shows that some individuals in the U.S. Congress are busy passing a bill in order to bother and create obstacles for the Islamic Republic. This is their enmity: it will not come to an end.
And these enmities will continue, but until when? Until you become strong, until the people of Iran become so strong that the enemy becomes frustrated with political, security, military and economic invasions, sanctions and the like. We should become strong. We should strengthen ourselves inside the country. I have frequently spoken about how we should gain the strength that is necessary for the country. First, it should be achieved through a strong economy. One of the ways is to work on the economy of resistance whose policies have been announced. It should be implemented in the form of groundwork and a practical plan and it should be pursued as strongly as possible and without wasting any time. Well, our friends in the administration are thankfully carrying out certain tasks. So, one of the ways is to strengthen the economy of the country. The youth of the country should not be jobless and their talents should not remain untapped. This is one of the ways.
Another way is developing science. The caravan of science should not lose its fast speed. We should move forward in the area of science because everything is dependent on it. So, this is another way to strengthen the country.
One of the most important ways to strengthen the country from the inside is to preserve the revolutionary spirit in the people particularly in youth. The enemies are trying to make our youth become decadent and indifferent towards the Revolution and to kill the spirit of valor and being revolutionary in them. This should be resisted. Youth should preserve their spirit of being revolutionary. And the officials of the country should respect revolutionary youth. Some spokespeople and writers should not constantly label hezbollahi and revolutionary youth as extremists and other such names. Revolutionary youth should be respected and encouraged to preserve their revolutionary spirit because it is this spirit that preserves and defends the country and that saves it in the face of different dangers.
These are the three main factors behind national power: having a strong and resistant economy, enjoying advanced and developing - on a daily basis - science and preserving the revolutionary spirit in all the people particularly in youth. These are the things that can protect the country. If these things are achieved, the enemy will become disappointed.
America does not even hide its enmity, rather it divides its responsibilities. One of them smiles and another prepares a bill against the Islamic Republic. This is a kind of dividing responsibilities. They pursue something called "negotiations", but negotiations are just an excuse and a tool for penetration. Negotiations are an instrument for imposing their demands. We agreed to negotiate with the Americans only on the nuclear issue because of certain reasons that we have frequently mentioned. Well, our officials did so. Thankfully, our negotiators had a good performance in this arena, but we did not allow them to negotiate with America on other matters.
We are willing to negotiate with the whole world, but we will not negotiate with America. We are men of negotiation and understanding on a governmental, public - people from other countries - and religious level. We are men of negotiation and we negotiate with everyone except for America. Of course, the Zionist regime should not be forgotten about because the very essence of the existence of the Zionist regime is illegitimate and fake.
I would like to say a few things about the Zionist regime. After the nuclear negotiations were concluded, we heard the Zionists say in occupied Palestine, "With these negotiations, we will not have any concerns about Iran for the next 25 years and after that, we will think about it." I would like to say to them in response that first, you will not see 25 years from today! By Allah's favor and grace, nothing called the "Zionist regime" will exist by 25 years from now. Second, during this period of time too, revolutionary, epic, jihadi and Islamic spirit will not let you feel comfort even for one single moment! They should know this. Nations have awakened. They know who the enemy is. Of course, some governments and the enemy's propaganda want to change the place of friends and enemies, but they will not reach anywhere. Nations - Muslim, particularly regional nations - are vigilant and aware. Well, this is the condition of the Zionist regime and America.

I would like to say a few things about the upcoming elections. The issue of elections is one of the current and urgent issues that we have today. Of course, since a year and a half, two years ago, some people have unfortunately been bringing up the issue of elections. In our opinion, this is not in the interest of the country. We should not touch on this issue too soon. Since a year and a half ago - that is to say, two years before the upcoming elections - some people began to speak about it in the press and in their speeches. When the environment of the country becomes electoral, many fundamental issues of society are sidelined and forgotten because the environment of elections is a competitive and tense environment. So, why should we create this environment one, two years before its due time? In our opinion, the untimely beginning of these discussions is not in the interest of the country, but now is the time. Now that three, four months remain until the elections begin, it is necessary to speak about it. Today, I will raise certain points in this regard and in the future too, if I am alive, I will speak more about this issue.
The issue of elections is a very important issue for the country. Elections are the complete manifestation of the people's presence and choice. With their presence in the arena of elections - including presidential, parliamentary and Assembly of Expert elections - the people shape true democracy in the country. This is very important. We have not allowed this process to be stopped or delayed during the 36, 37 years that have passed from the Revolution.
Elections in different countries are delayed when a war breaks out or another incident occurs, but in Iran, elections have not been delayed even for one single day. This has not happened in any era. Tehran, Khuzestan, Ilam, Kermanshah and other cities used to be bombarded, but elections were held on their scheduled date. The same thing happened everywhere in the country even in villages and those places where it is difficult to come and go. Elections have not been cancelled in this country. Some people wanted to cancel elections. At certain points in time, some demagogues and westernized individuals tried to cancel or delay elections, but by Allah's favor, they were prevented from doing so and the elections were held in their scheduled date. This is the significance of elections. This is why our elections are thankfully the manifestation of democracy.

The Islamic Republic is a democratic system in the true sense of the word. Of course, the enemy constantly speaks against our elections. The Americans and their propaganda agents constantly speak against our elections in different ways. For 25 years during the time of the taghuti regime, the Americans were present in Iran, but they did not at all criticize the nominal and ridiculous parliaments of those days. If you take a look at history and read the events about the elections during the time of Mohammad Reza Shah - and worse than that, during the time of Reza Shah - you will see that first the English and later on the Americans dominated our country, but they did not oppose those nominal, theatrical and ridiculous elections even once!
In the present time too, they do not say even one single word against the dictatorial, tyrannical and hereditary regimes that exist in the region, but they constantly blame and make false criticisms against Iran that is holding different elections one after another. This is while in Iran, all the bases of the system - ranging from the Leadership and the president to the members of the Majlis, the Assembly of Experts and city and village councils - are elected by the people.
Thankfully, our elections have been healthy ones until today. The point that I want to raise is that according to international criteria, our elections are among the best and healthiest elections with a high turnout. Unfortunately, a bad habit that some people in the country have is that they constantly question the health of elections in each term. They constantly speak about rigging in elections, their so-called concerns and such and such things. This is a wrong course of action. During the past 37 years, the people participated in elections in an enthusiastic way because of their trust in the Islamic Republic in different eras. Why do some people want to undermine this trust? The people trust the Islamic Republic. When there is an election, they enter the arena and vote. So why should we undermine this trust with false and fake concerns?
Well, it is clear that such a thing [rigging] will not be allowed because there is strict supervision. One of the greatest blessings of the existence of the Guardian Council is that its members are vigilant about mistakes and they do not allow any wrongdoing to be committed in this regard. The same is true of other organizations. In the recent years, we sometimes received certain reports saying that there have been certain problems in elections, but whenever we issued an order asking for investigation, it became clear that this was not the case. Of course, sometimes it is possible that a wrongdoing is committed in a corner of the country, but it does not affect the results of elections in any way. Such small wrongdoings are not important and elections have been healthy in all terms.

Protecting the votes of the people is one of the rights of the people in the true sense of the word. It is one of their rights. When our Iranian brothers and sisters participate in an election and cast a vote in the ballot box, protecting their right is a religious and Islamic obligation. Their trust should not be abused because it is really one of their rights. And whatever the result of their votes is, we should respect it as well because this is one of the rights of the people as well.
When we stood up, in the year 1388, against those people who insisted that the result of the elections should be announced as invalid, the reason was that we wanted to protect the right of the people. Forty million people - the highest turnout until today - participated in the elections of the year 1388. Well, it produced a particular result. Whoever would have won the election, we would defend them in the same way. I defended haq ul-nas [the rights of the people]. In the future too, whenever the people vote and whomever they elect, I will continue to protect their rights and stand behind them. The votes of the people are one of their rights. Therefore, we should not destroy the trust that the people have in the system with no reason and with irrational statements. Sometimes, they criticize the Ministry of Interior and sometimes, they criticize the Guardian Council.
The Guardian Council is the Islamic Republic's sharp eye for elections. Such an organization exists everywhere in the world, but with different names. In our country, it is referred to as the Guardian Council. Its members pay careful attention to see if the people who enter the arena of elections and who become candidates are competent or not. This is done through the process of vetting. If they see that there has been some negligence and that an incompetent person has become a candidate, they stop him. This is their legal right and it is based on reason. Some people criticize this without any reason. One of the rights of the people is this right of the Guardian Council: the efficient right that the Guardian Council has on the basis of the Constitution. This is one of the rights of the people and therefore, it should be observed and protected. Elections are important. This is what I wanted to say about elections.
I believe in the enthusiastic presence of the people. I believe that it will protect the country. In the future, if I am alive, I will speak about this matter more.
What I want to say to you dear brothers and sisters - and I would like to be emphatic about it - is that you should know that with these people, with this logic and with this Constitution, the Islamic Republic will achieve victory over all its enemies. The condition for this is that we rely on Allah the Exalted and shake the hand of brotherhood and unity in a firm manner. Moreover, we should avoid creating division and weakening each other. If we observe these things, Allah the Exalted will pay attention to us. Allah the Exalted will help whomever helps Islam.
Dear God, associate the immaculate soul of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) with Your saints. Associate the souls of our dear martyrs with Your saints. Dear God, shower Your blessings and grace on our religious and righteous people on a daily basis.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
