
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Speech in Zahedan"/>
After nurturing the enthusiasm for this visit for a long time, today I have the opportunity to once again meet you, the devoted and sincere people of Sistan-Baluchestan Province.
This province reminds me of many memories. Although some of these memories have bitter aspects, their sweetness is greater than their bitterness.
My exile to this province under the tyrannical Pahlavi regime was bitter, but getting acquainted with the sincere people of this province was very sweet.
The first time I traveled to this province was in 1963. In that year, the devotion and sincerity of the people of this city motivated me to talk to them about the most sensitive issues of the day. But of course this drew harsh reactions from the despotic regime, and its agents flew me back to Tehran and transferred me to the Qezel-Qal'eh Prison!
This memory may sound bitter, but it is indeed one of the sweetest memories of my long period of struggle against the dictatorial regime. This is because it was then that I discovered Zahedan, its sincere residents and other faithful people of this province.
Consequently, when in 1977 I was exiled to Zahedan and then to Iranshahr, my previous acquaintance with the inhabitants of this province helped me establish strong bonds of friendship with them. 
The deprivations that I witnessed in this province made it clear to me that all-out efforts were needed to improve the living conditions of the local residents and help them live better and more comfortable lives.
Following the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the late Imam Khomeini assigned me to pay a visit to Sistan-Baluchestan Province. I visited different cities and towns in the southern, eastern, northern and western parts of the province, including Chabahar and Nikshahr, which are furthest south, Saravan and Sarbaz in the east and Zabol in the north of the province.
I talked to the local people and got familiar with their sufferings and afflictions, which had piled up under the tyrannical Pahlavi regime. The Islamic Revolution realized its responsibility to this province, and the Construction Jihad and popular volunteer forces started working in various provincial regions. 
The youngsters who now live in Zahedan, Iranshahr, Chabahar or Zabol have no idea how terrible the living conditions were in this province in the past. If those living conditions are now pictured, it will become clear what valuable services the Islamic system has rendered to this region.
However, I have often told the government officials that Sistan-Baluchestan Province needs and deserves more services. The elimination of the deprivations that were imposed by the tyrannical and incompetent kings on this province in the past takes time. Besides, the continuous drought for the past five years has doubled the problems of this province. 
Sistan-Baluchestan Province has great potential for development and progress. For instance, it has a climate that is suitable for growing crops and for animal husbandry. It is rich in mines and mineral resources. Above all, this province has talented youngsters.
One of the main characteristics and strong points of the people of Sistan-Baluchestan Province is their firm religious belief. Nevertheless, the devout people of this province should watch out for the evil plots of the enemies of Islam, who are trying to foment discord between the Sunni Muslims and their Shia brethren and undermine their cordial relations. 
The issue that is facing all Muslim nations today is the presence of outside powers in this part of the world, which is causing trouble for the regional countries. In particular, the Untied States is threatening Iraq with military aggression, and U.S. officials are openly saying that their attack on Iraq is aimed at furthering U.S. interests!
This reveals the falsity of Washington's claims to support human rights and democracy. The nations of the world are no longer deceived by such false claims, and massive demonstrations were recently staged in some 160 cities throughout the world in protest against the U.S. militarism and its expansionist policies. 
Yet, this is just the beginning, as the realities indicate that if the United States gets involved in military aggression against Iraq, it will run into so many problems and difficulties that instead of securing its long-term interests, it will only end up facing serious threats to its existence. Today, unlike in the past, nations will stand up to the bullying of the arrogant powers. 
My dear ones! We should try to act upon the Islamic teachings. Acting upon Islam does not mean that we should only say our prayers and fast, as benevolence and justice, fighting evil and corruption and unity of Muslims in the face of the enemies are also recommended by Islam.
I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow on our government officials the success in performing their significant duties with regard to Sistan-Baluchestan Province and in taking the necessary measures to bring about further development and economic progress for this province.
I thank you all for attending this gathering. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings 
