
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech to Officials and Ambassadors of Islamic Countries on Mab'ath"/>
God's greetings be upon Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his immaculate household (a.s.)
I would like to congratulate all you dear participants and guests, 
all the people of Iran, all Muslims throughout the world and all those 
people whose hearts beat for justice, human values and freedom on the 
occasion of this great, historical and unique Eid. Be'that is an Eid for
 everyone, not just for Muslims. The purpose of celebrating and 
commemorating be'that is, in fact, to review its meaning and to learn 
lessons from it. We are always in need of be'that's lessons. Be'that was
 not merely a historical event for a specific era. Rather, it is for all
 eras in history.
Today, what I have selected from the great and numerous lessons of 
be'that and what I want to say - in brief - about this matter is that 
be'that emerged for confronting jahiliyya. In Islamic literature, 
jahiliyya is the era before the emergence of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.)
 prophethood. It should not be thought that jahiliyya was particular to 
the Arabian Peninsula and those Arab peoples living in Makkah, Hijaz and
 other Arab areas. This was not the case. Jahiliyya was common 
everywhere. At that time, Iran was drowned in jahiliyya as well. The 
same was true of Rome. Islam and the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) be'that 
emerged to confront that jahiliyya. Jahiliyya does not only mean lack of
 knowledge. In Islamic terminology and literature, the meaning of 
jahiliyya is beyond this. Part of jahiliyya is lack of knowledge, but 
jahiliyya in its broad sense means the domination of human lust and rage
 over the environment of life. This is the meaning of jahiliyya. 
Jahiliyya means that human societies lose virtue and are subdued by evil
 mainly under the influence of their rulers' lust and rage. This is the 
meaning of jahiliyya.
Ignorance in the lives of the people of those days was so vast in 
scope. On the one hand, people were involved in lust, sexual desire and 
other such temptations in an unbridled way - you can take a look at the 
Arabian Peninsula of those days, but other environments were the same 
and anyone who had the opportunity indulged in lust in an unbridled way -
 and on the other hand, these followers of lust exploited all imaginable
 boundaries of cruelty, destruction and blood-shedding. They used to 
kill their own children: "Lost are those who slay their children from 
folly and without knowledge" [The Holy Quran, 6: 140]. This is done out 
of folly and this folly is the same as jahiliyya. Their cruelty reached 
as far as killing their own children, let alone others' innocent 
children and women. This is jahiliyya. 
On the one hand, it was out of lust and on the other hand, it was out
 of rage. At that time, life was a prisoner of these two unbridled and 
uncontrolled feelings. Islam emerged to change that condition. Of 
course, the same thing could be witnessed in the behavior of Sassanid 
courtiers in Iran and courtiers in the Roman Empire. The same thing 
could be witnessed in all those places where empires, courtiers and 
cruel and taghuti monarchies existed. Islam rose against all these ugly 
realities: "That it may be an admonition to all peoples" [The Holy 
Quran, 25: 1]. The Holy Quran addressed its warning to all the people in
 the world. This is Islam's message. 
Jahiliyya exists in today's world as well. We should open our eyes to
 indentify jahiliyya. Today, the same phenomenon exists: incalculable, 
unbridled and unreasonable lust. Today, the logic of the western world 
for indulging in lust is based on one's interest and desire. When we 
ask, "Why do you engage in homosexuality?" they answer, "Well, this is a
 human desire". This is their logic. When it comes to cruelty as well, 
the same people - who observe no red lines in lustfulness and who do not
 show any resistance against different kinds of human lust - behave in 
the same way: they kill innocent people and they suppress nations 
without any reason. This is the kind of jahiliyya that exists today. It 
is a modern jahiliyya. 
The difference between this jahiliyya and the jahiliyya during the 
early Islamic Era - as the Holy Quran says, "the first jahiliyya" - is 
that in the present time, jahiliyya is equipped with the weapon of 
knowledge. Knowledge - which should be a means for people's happiness - 
has become an instrument for bringing darkness and disaster to human 
beings and human societies. Those people who are bullying the world in 
the present time are doing so by relying on their products of knowledge.
 The weapon that is available to them has been built by knowledge. It is
 a product of knowledge. Their great information, security and 
propaganda tools are all products of knowledge. And all these products 
are at the service of lust and rage. This is the condition of today's 
world. The Islamic community faces such a reality and the world of Islam
 should feel and understand this. 
Today, jahiliyya has been reproduced and it enjoys a great 
capability. It is hundreds - it should be said, thousands - of times 
more dangerous than jahiliyya during the early Islamic era. Of course, 
Islam has thankfully become equipped as well. Today, the great Islamic 
force has spread everywhere by using different tools. The hope to 
achieve success and to overcome the plot of the enemies is a great hope,
 not a frail one. Primarily, what is necessary to achieve this is 
foresight and secondly, it is determination and willpower. These are 
what we Muslim nations need.
Today, the world of Islam really and truly has many problems. Take a 
look at the condition of Islamic countries in our region ranging from 
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Syria to Lebanon, Palestine, Yemen and Libya. 
The Islamic countries in West Asia and North Africa have many problems 
in the present time. They have security and fratricidal problems. They 
have the problem of being dominated by those groups which know nothing 
about God. Behind all these things, there is the problem of arrogant 
plots hatched by great powers. These powers are headed by America and 
they enter the arena in the name of safeguarding their interests. They 
do whatever they want out of lust and rage. They kill innocent people 
and they support criminal groups. 
Their propaganda really enjoys a vast scope and they cover up all 
these crimes. Churchill, this well-known politician in England's former 
generation - we Iranians are very familiar with the name "Churchill" - 
has said something which is astonishingly ironic. He says, truth is so 
precious that she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies. 
Notice that this is their logic. They tell lies, use false propaganda 
and say things which are the opposite of truth. This is what we can see 
in westerners' policies.
Today, the Americans claim that they want to fight against terrorism.
 This is while they themselves have created the most dangerous terrorist
 groups which are very large in number. Who created DAESH? They 
themselves acknowledge that they have played the main role in creating 
DAESH. Who pitted other small and large groups like DAESH against Iraq, 
Syria and other areas? Where do the bullets, weapons and dollars that 
exist in the pockets of these criminal assassins come from? Where does 
such money come from? Who are the people that support these numerous and
 dangerous terrorist groups at America's command? Is there any doubt 
that the hand of arrogance has played the largest part in creating 
terrorism and in strengthening, helping and supporting terrorists in the
 region? 
When we take a look at all regional areas, we see the evil 
fingerprints of the enemies in producing the event of terrorism. Who 
assists the fake Zionist regime that has exerted massive pressure on the
 Palestinians in Gaza and in the West Bank? Who supports them? Who 
clears the road for them? Who stands behind them? It is western powers -
 headed by America - that are doing so. This is while they say in their 
slogans that they are opposed to terrorism and DAESH. They are lying. 
They say things which are not true. This is jahiliyya. This is the kind 
of jahiliyya that exists in today's world.
We should be awake. You dear brothers, dear people of Iran, Muslims 
in the great Islamic Ummah and officials in different countries, should 
know that we can stand up against this jahiliyya. Today, the vicious 
policy of arrogance in our region is to wage indirect wars with the 
purpose of safeguarding their interests and to provoke regional 
countries or certain groups inside countries into killing one another so
 that they can fill the pockets of weapons factories and repair their 
economic policies which are on the verge of bankruptcy. This is their 
goal. Therefore, we should be awake.
They speak about the Persian Gulf region. Ensuring the security of 
the Persian Gulf region is to the advantage of all countries surrounding
 it. We countries surrounding the Persian Gulf have many common 
interests. We are neighbors. Ensuring the security of this area is to 
the advantage of all of us. If the Persian Gulf is safe, all of us will 
benefit from this security and if it is insecure, it will be insecure 
for all. An insecure Persian Gulf would be insecure for all. There are 
some people who are the owners of the Persian Gulf. The Persian Gulf 
belongs to them and it is their home. What business does America have in
 the region which gives it the right it to express its opinion about the
 issues of the Persian Gulf and to gather allies. They are not after 
security, rather they are after their own interests. If they deem it 
necessary to create an insecure environment for an area, they do it or 
they support those who do so. 
Well, Yemen has become insecure. It has been turned into an arena for
 killing children and women. Is this not insecurity? Who is backing up 
this insecurity? It is America. Unfortunately, America's agents are some
 regional countries which call themselves "Muslims", but they have been 
deceived. The main supporter and architect is America. It is the 
Americans who promote terrorism.
This is while they say that Iran is supporting terrorism. We have 
fought against terrorism. We have slapped terrorism across the face! 
Terrorism rose inside our country with our enemies' money and with 
America's plot, but the people of Iran gave terrorism inside the country
 a serious blow to the head! From now on too, they will act in the same 
way.
We have cooperated with those people who fought against terrorism in 
our country and in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon. We helped them and we will 
continue to do that. We are opposed to terrorism. The most dangerous and
 vicious terrorists in the region are the Zionists. We are faced with 
and opposed to the Zionists. They say to us that Iran supports 
terrorism. It is you who support terrorism! It is America that supports 
the terrorist Zionist regime. It is America that created DAESH. You 
supported those terrorists in Syria who kill people, burn individuals 
alive, tear open a dead man's chest and pull out and sink their teeth 
into hearts. 
It was you who supported such terrorists. It was you who encouraged 
them. Your drones destroyed the people's houses in Pakistan and 
Afghanistan. They turned people's wedding ceremonies into funerals - 
this was done in Iraq. It is you who are doing such things. Terrorism 
belongs to you. It is you who are terrorists. This is while you say that
 Iran supports terrorism. Terrorism is your job. We are opposed to 
terrorism and we fight against every terrorist. 
We will support every innocent and oppressed person. Today, the 
people of Yemen have been oppressed. There is no oppression which is 
more severe than killing Muslims in a haraam month - the month is Rajab 
is a haraam month. Even the pagans in Makah used to stop wars when the 
month of Rajab arrived. 
Today, those people who make Yemeni families mourn the loss of their 
dear ones in the month of Rajab - which is a haraam month - are uglier 
and worse than the pagans in Makah of those days. Those people who 
launch air attacks on an area one hundred, two hundred times and who do 
so with stupid reasons, wrong arguments and false claims are worse than 
the pagans at that time. These people are an oppressed people. The 
people of Yemen are an oppressed people. The people of Bahrain are an 
oppressed people. The people of Palestine are subject to severe 
oppression. It is many years now that the people of Palestine are under 
pressure. We support the oppressed as much as we can. We support them 
within the scope of our capabilities because it is our responsibility to
 do so. 
Islam has said to us, "Be hostile towards the oppressor and 
supportive towards the oppressed" [speaking in Arabic]. This is the 
Commander of the Faithful's advice. We do not say, "Help your brothers 
no matter if they are the oppressor or the oppressed" [speaking in 
Arabic]. This was a slogan during the time of jahiliyya. They used to 
say, "You should defend and support your brother, whether he is the 
oppressor or the oppressed". This is not what the Holy Quran says. 
Islamic teachings forbid this. No matter who the oppressor is, we should
 confront and prevent them and we should support the oppressed no matter
 who they are. 
Regional countries should be vigilant. The policy of the enemies of 
the region and the Islamic Ummah is to frighten countries of one 
another. Their policy is to create an imaginary enemy and to sideline 
the main enemy who is arrogance, transgressing companies and their 
agents, and Zionism. They want to create an imaginary enemy. They want 
to pit Iran against Arabs, such and such a tribe against another tribe, 
and Shia against Sunni. These are the policies of the enemies and 
therefore, they should be confronted. Confronting such policies is 
confronting jahiliyya. Today's modern jahiliyya is a violent, merciless 
and dark-hearted jahiliyya which is equipped with all sorts of weapons. 
We should confront this jahiliyya in a vigilant way. The people of Iran 
have done this and they will continue to do so in the future.
Fortunately, regional peoples have awakened. They have temporarily 
suppressed Islamic Awakening, but awakening is not suppressible. Insight
 is not suppressible. The people of Iran are awake. Many regional 
peoples are vigilant and awake. Thankfully, the Islamic Ummah is 
awakening as well. Of course, the enemies may achieve some domination: 
"Evil prances around" [speaking in Arabic]. These are the 
responsibilities that we have today towards commemorating the Holy 
Prophet's (s.w.a.) be'that. We should pay attention that we should not 
forget about the Islamic Ummah's mission and that we should not ignore 
its power. Fortunately, the power of the Islamic Ummah is a great power.
 The clear reason for this is that it is many years now that they have 
been trying to suppress the force of awakening and resistance in the 
region with all their power, but they have failed to do so. It is 35 
years now that they have been fighting against the Islamic Republic 
which was the pivot of this awakening, but they have thankfully been 
defeated. From now on too, they will continue to be defeated. 
Dear God, shower Your greetings and mercy on all the martyrs and 
mujahids of this path. Dear God, associate our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) 
who taught these lessons and opened this path to us. Associate our dear 
martyrs with the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.).
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

