
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Teachers from Throughout the Country"/>
God's greetings be upon Muhammad (s.w.a.) and his immaculate household (a.s.)
My dear ones, welcome. You have imbued this Hussainiyah with the 
scent of your pure breaths. The essence of teaching is really pure. Any 
environment in which teachers are present will undoubtedly enjoy divine 
mercy and blessings. I hope that God will bestow success on you so that 
both you teachers and educational officials can carry out this great 
responsibility in the best way possible.
It is the month of Rajab now. The meaningful and beautiful song that 
you performed touched on the month of Rajab which is the month of 
praying and reliance on and attention to God. In this holy month, the 
believers who pray say this to Allah the Exalted: "Oh God, guide me the 
way you guide the guided, feed me with the kind of diligence that 
diligent people show and do not place me among those ignorant people who
 are away from you". How important these three requests are. And the 
last one is a request for forgiveness and this is the basis of all 
affairs: "And forgive me on Judgment Day" [Iqbal al-A'mal, Volume 2, 
page 643]. Guidance and diligence are things that you ask Allah the 
Exalted to bestow on you in this prayer. 
Notice that if you and I have these two elements, all problems will 
be solved. All problems will be solved if we benefit from divine 
guidance and if the kind of diligence that diligent people throughout 
history had is visible in our behavior, actions and words. In the third 
request, a specific kind of harm has been highlighted: "And do not place
 me among those ignorant people who are away from you". Ignorance and 
negligence is the greatest detriment. Negligence - about our path, 
goals, capabilities and opportunities and negligence about the enemy and
 the responsibility that falls on our shoulders in the present time - is
 our greatest enemy. The first enemy that makes us suffer a defeat in 
the face of other enemies is negligence: "And do not place me among 
those ignorant people who are away from you". The consequence of this 
negligence is drifting away from God, from goals and from happiness. 
Prayers contain understanding, monotheistic concepts and valuable 
lessons about life. We should read prayers with this outlook and we 
should benefit from the environment of this month. 
This week has been named "Teachers' Week" in commemoration of our 
dear and great teacher, the late Ayatollah Motahhari. Shahid Motahhari 
had many unique characteristics, but in my opinion, the most important 
characteristic of his personality was teaching. He was a teacher in 
Islamic seminaries, in universities and in the ordinary environment of 
life. His speeches were a lesson because he was pure and diligent. I saw
 up close instances of his scholarly efforts. He used to have notes for 
all subject matters. He showed me packs of his writings about different 
matters. At that time, I was surprised at his patience, enthusiasm, 
persistence and diligence. Well, this is why today - after the passage 
of 35 years from the martyrdom of that man - his books and his words are
 still alive. Today, his books and his statements continue to be 
valuable for our young generation and researchers. Of course, we do not 
say that this is enough. There are new ideas, thoughts and falsehoods 
and some people should work on them in a Motahhari manner, but his name 
is an eternal name.
Well, the main issue that I want to discuss is about the educational 
system. Of course, there are other issues which I may discuss, but the 
main issue that I would like to raise today is the issue of the 
educational system. This is an issue which is important to me. The 
reason is that the educational system is, in fact, a center for creating
 the future world. It is evident that we will have a future. In 20, 25 
years, a generation will take over which is being produced today. And 
the producers of this product are teachers and the educational system. 
You are producing a generation. How are you going to do that? This is 
very important. The future of the country and our world is dependent on 
the effort that the educational system makes today. This is not an 
unimportant matter. We have no other organization which is so important.
 Of course, people study in universities and Islamic seminaries and they
 are cultivated in social environments as well, but the influential role
 of teachers is irreplaceable. The role that teachers can play in 
influencing the intellectual and psychological build up of today's 
children - who are going to be men and women of our future - has no 
peers. 
This role is related to the entire period of childhood, the entire 
teenage period and the entire 12-year educational term. It is an 
irreplaceable role. Neither parents nor the environment can play this 
role. Teachers are such individuals. The educational system is such an 
organization. The educational system has the highest level of contact 
with the living environment of the people. You have about 13 million 
students. Including their parents - who constitute 26 million people - 
it becomes 39 million people. And if you add the one million teachers 
and personnel of the educational system, then about 40 million people 
are in contact with this organization. Which other organization do you 
know that enjoys such a high and important level of contact with 
society? These are the reasons why we place great emphasis on the 
educational system.
Now, I would like to raise a point about this organization. I have 
said many times and I would like to repeat that no matter how much we 
pay for the educational system, it is not an expenditure. Rather, it is 
an investment. We should adopt such an outlook towards the economy of 
the educational system. The economy of the educational system is not 
like the economy of any other organization. If you pay a great deal of 
money, you are - in fact - making an investment. This is the main and 
fundamental matter that I expect the officials of the country, executive
 officials and our people to pay attention to. This was about the 
educational system.
In this great organization, who are the pivotal points and the 
torchbearers that manage the arena and that should be provided for? The 
answer is teachers. Teachers are the main people who manage the arena. 
Different organizations, institutions, documents, schoolbooks and 
everything else support this main pivot. A good teacher is a person 
whose influence is - as we said - irreplaceable. If we benefit from good
 teachers, they can educate great men even in a system like the system 
of maktab khane [the traditional Iranian schools] as they did so in the 
past. Good teachers can create great men and individuals and outstanding
 personalities even in a system which is not very efficient. Therefore, 
teachers are the main essence. 
What do teachers want to do? I have written it down. They want to 
produce a generation which enjoys these characteristics: piety, 
self-confidence, hopefulness, enthusiasm, physical and psychological 
health, optimism, determination, frugality and beneficiality. Teachers 
want to cultivate such a generation. This is not a minor responsibility.
 When it is said that teachers do what prophets do, we should pay 
attention to the depth of this statement. What does it mean? "He sent 
among them a messenger from among themselves, rehearsing unto them the 
signs of Allah, purifying them, and instructing them the Book and 
wisdom" [The Holy Quran, 3: 164]. This is what prophets used to do. 
Their job was to save humanity and to create a lofty and noble human 
community. This was the prophets' job. When we say that "Teachers have 
the same vocation as prophets do" and "Teaching is the prophets' 
vocation" this is what it means. Teachers are such people.
Well, this has certain requirements. One of the requirements is the 
issue of economy which we discussed. The economy of the educational 
system and teachers' economical problems are one of the requirements. We
 know the limitations that governmental organizations have. We are not 
unfamiliar with the limitations and problems that they have, but 
executive officials should try to pay special attention to this matter. 
As we said, this is a kind of investment, it will yield results and it 
will produce value added. It is not an unnecessary cost. This issue 
should be among primary issues in executive management and 
decision-making. If we do not do so, the enemy will take advantage of 
it. You see what he is doing. By using his media, radio and agents, by 
using those individuals who have malevolent intentions against the 
Islamic Republic and Islam and by using such tools and instruments, the 
enemy will take advantage of the situation. 
Of course, our teachers are vigilant, noble and religious. I really 
believe in this. We have experienced it in the course of many years and 
today too, we can see it throughout the country. Our teachers are not 
negligent about the enemy's plots. Everyone can understand that those 
who chant slogans in the name of economic problems and who add a 
seditious, political and partisan tinge to them do not have healthy 
motives. They do not chant such slogans to show their sympathy to 
teachers. Rather, they have other motives. Similarly, when a foreign 
medium focuses its efforts on this matter - in the present time, they 
work on this more than they did in the past - it is not out of sympathy.
 Rather, their goal is to create problems and cause trouble for the 
Islamic Republic. They adopt such measures out of malevolence and grudge
 against Islam, the independence of the country and the Islamic 
Republic. But we should not give them any excuse. This is one point. 
Of course, as we said, teachers should be - as they are - vigilant. 
Fortunately, our teachers are vigilant. When some people act against the
 Islamic Republic and the Revolution in whatever way they can - they 
sting and inject their venom and they show hostility to the Islamic 
Republic - this is out of grudge against the Islamic Republic, not out 
of kindness to teachers. And they make the same use of any other slogan 
that they find.
Another issue is the issue of Farhangian [teacher education] 
University. I have referred to this matter before, both in my private 
meetings with the honorable Minister of Education and in my public 
speeches with teachers. Farhangian University is very important. All the
 procedures which lead to teacher employment, teaching and the education
 of teachers should be adopted correctly and on the basis of Islam and 
the Revolution. If we do so, the result will be what you want and it 
will be approved by God. As we said, it will produce a great and 
promising generation for the future of the country. However, if these 
requirements are not met, then such achievements will not be made. In 
Farhangian University, both textbook materials, and teachers and the 
academic staff are very important. What kind of people do we want to 
educate so that they build and produce great men? This is very 
important. Therefore, the issue of competence, professors and textbook 
materials is very important in Farhangian University.
Another issue is the issue of bringing about a fundamental 
transformation in the educational system. Fortunately today, the 
honorable Minister of Education referred to it and he discussed the 
efforts that have been made in this regard. I have seen its report 
before. What is important is that everyone has accepted the fact that 
our educational system needs a transformation. Even if the old 
educational system of the country had no other flaw, it would be enough 
for one to reject it and believe in a fundamental transformation because
 no change has been made in it with the passage of time.
The transformation plan which was fortunately prepared and announced 
two, three years ago and which became the basis for other plans is a 
good and effective plan from the viewpoint of outstanding experts in the
 educational system. Experts and those who are well-informed about 
educational matters approve of this plan. Educational experts approve of
 this plan which has thankfully been prepared with hours of work, with 
great diligence and with everyone's help. They say that it is a 
well-prepared and important plan. Therefore, it should be implemented. 
Of course, we should not expect such plans to produce results soon. 
These are not plans whose results show themselves in one, two, five 
years. Rather, they require patience and constant work. 
One point is that the cohesion of this plan should be preserved. It 
was pointed out in the meeting that a number of articles in this plan 
have been implemented. This is good, but all its articles should be 
implemented because this is a cohesive plan. If we implement some - for 
example, 40 - articles and ignore the rest, it will not produce results.
 So, the cohesion of this plan should be preserved. When all articles 
are implemented, then tasks will move forward and they will be 
accelerated and carried out in the correct way.
Another point is that the educational body of the country should 
become familiar with this plan. They should know what this plan demands.
 A teacher who teachers in such as such a primary school or high school 
should know what this fundamental transformation asks him to do. A 
primary or high school principal should know - on the basis of this plan
 - what his responsibility towards students is. The demands of this plan
 should be identified and we should explain and discuss them for all 
educational personnel.
Another important issue is that promotional organizations and 
national media should offer their help. Sometimes, it is even suggested 
to establish an IRIB channel with the purpose of delineating this 
matter. Of course, this depends on cooperation between educational and 
IRIB officials.
Another important matter about this plan is the capacity of the Sixth
 [Five-Year] Plan. Fortunately, the honorable Minister of Education 
spoke about it today. In the present time, the policies of the Sixth 
Plan are being prepared. Later on, the plan itself will be prepared and 
it will be implemented in the future. The issue of the educational 
system and the transformation plan should be definitely considered in 
the Sixth Plan so that we know what we will have in the educational 
system in the year 1404.
One fundamental point is that - I am addressing this to officials in 
charge of the educational system - you should take care not to let raw 
and easily formulated plans and shallow and routine changes replace the 
fundamental transformation. We should take care not to let these plans 
and changes satisfy and please us, thinking that we are changing the 
educational system. Shallow changes are not important. The basis is the 
articles specified in the transformation plan so that this structure can
 be renovated gradually. This is important.
Fortunately, the ground is prepared. When I take a look at the 
country, it seems to me that in the present time, the ground is more 
prepared for you and the honorable officials of the educational system 
to raise the quality of the educational system and to bring about a 
major and fundamental transformation in this important and sensitive 
organization. One day, we had 18 million students, but today, we have 
less than 13 million. This is an opportunity. There was one day when we 
had serious shortcomings in terms of educational environments. There 
were a number of two-shift, three-shift schools. Fortunately today, such
 a situation does not exist anymore. In many areas of the country, 
schools are in good conditions. And there are some people who are 
interested and who offer help. This should be preserved. Therefore 
today, the ground is prepared for bringing about this transformation.
In any case, the country fortunately enjoys stability and security. 
Executive officials are busy working in an enthusiastic way. Today is 
the day when we can, by Allah's favor, help the educational system reach
 a fundamental point in terms of quality, content and structure. As I 
said, teachers are the pivot of this transformation. Those who stand in 
the middle of the arena are you dear teachers. On this occasion, I would
 like to send my greetings to all teachers throughout the country and I 
hope that God will keep all teachers under His protection. 
There is another point which is not relevant to the issue of the 
educational system but which is among the fundamental matters of the 
country. This point is about the way the enemies behave towards the 
Islamic Republic. During the past 35 years, the grandeur of the great 
movement of our people has always caught the enemies' eyes. They have 
bragged and boasted a lot and they made as many efforts as they could, 
but they always held the people of Iran and the Islamic Republic in awe.
 Therefore, we should preserve it. This awe - which is a reality, not an
 illusion - should be preserved. We are a large country and a 70-plus 
million people who enjoy a cultural and historical background which is 
deeper and more original than the cultural and historical background in 
many other countries in the world. We are a people who have courage and 
determination. We are a people who defend our identity and character.
One example of this emerged in the eight-year Sacred Defense Era. 
During those eight years, all global powers in the east and west and 
their agents and cohorts joined hands to bring the people of Iran to 
their knees, but they could not do so. Therefore, do these people not 
deserve to enjoy grandeur and greatness in the eyes of global 
spectators? This greatness should be preserved. Politicians in different
 countries and those who are well-informed have said to us - some of 
them have said this to us and some did not, but they have said it among 
themselves and we have been informed of it - that if the sanctions that 
the enemies have imposed and the pressures that they have exerted on the
 Islamic Republic had been directed at any other country, they would 
have completely annihilated them, but they could not even stir the 
Islamic Republic. We are such a system. This is not a minor incident, 
rather it is a very great matter. 
Of course, global propaganda always places a cover, a curtain and a 
blanket of fog in the way of its addressees so that they do not see many
 realities. However, many people in the world and many nations - 
particularly, those who are close to us - see these realities. All 
politicians in the world see realities. You should not look at their 
statements. All those heads of countries, politicians and spokespeople 
in different western and European countries, in America and in other 
places - who sometimes make nonsensical statements - confirm in their 
hearts the greatness, grandeur, power and competence of the people of 
Iran although they do not show it in their words.
I have repeatedly spoken about the nuclear negotiations and other 
such matters and we have said what we should have, but everyone - 
including our officials in charge of foreign policy, other officials and
 the outstanding personalities of society - should pay attention that if
 a people cannot properly defend their identity and greatness in the 
face of foreigners, then they will certainly receive a blow to the head 
[they will be humiliated]. There is no doubt about this. We should 
appreciate the value of our character and personality. The enemies issue
 threats. Just a few days ago, two American politicians issued military 
threats. And such threats are issued by many other politicians who do 
not have very important and sensitive positions. I do not understand. 
What does negotiation under the shadow of threats mean? They want us to 
negotiate under the shadow of threats! It appears as if there was a 
sword being brandished above our heads! 
The people of Iran are not like this. The people of Iran do not 
tolerate negotiating under the shadow of threats. Why do they issue 
threats? Why do they say nonsense? They say that under such and such 
circumstances, they may attack Iran. First, the hell you will do such a 
thing [audience chants "Death to America!"]. You do not dare do so and 
second, I said during the time of the former President of America - at 
that time too, he used to issue threats - that the time of "hit and run"
 is over. It is not the case that you can say, "We will hit them and 
then we will run". This is not the case. Your feet will get stuck and we
 will chase you. The people of Iran will never let go of those who 
transgress against them. We will chase anyone who wants to do that. 
Everyone - including our negotiators - should pay attention to this. 
Our negotiators should constantly take red lines and the main guidelines
 into consideration. Of course, they probably do so. By Allah's favor, 
they will take them into consideration and they will not cross these red
 lines. Nonetheless, it is not acceptable if they issue threats. Why do 
you issue threats? You do not need these negotiations less than us. Yes,
 we would like sanctions to be lifted, but even if this does not happen,
 we can manage on our own in other ways. This has been proven. One day, I
 mentioned this matter [Resistance Economy]. Fortunately today, I 
witness that economists, different officials and those who are familiar 
with economic matters of the country constantly repeat this. They say 
that it is not the case that the economic issues of the country are 
dependent on sanctions and that economic problems will be solved only if
 sanctions are lifted. Economic problems can be resolved with our own 
determination, intention, actions and measures whether sanctions exist 
or not. Of course, if sanctions do not exist, it will be easier to do 
so. If sanctions exist, it is a bit more difficult, but it is possible. 
We have such an outlook towards negotiations, but the current 
government of America is in real need of these negotiations. One of the 
fundamental points that they raise in their performance sheet is that 
they have managed to bring the Islamic Republic to the negotiating table
 and impose such and such a thing on it. They need this. If the other 
side does not need these negotiations more than us - and it definitely 
does - at least it does not need it less than we do. So, why do they 
issue threats? I do not agree with those negotiations which are 
conducted under the shadow of threats. They can go and talk to them. 
They can negotiate and reach an agreement. This is alright - of course, 
if they observe the main guidelines - but they should not at all accept 
imposition, bullying, humiliation and threat.
Today, their reputation has been completely ruined in the world. The 
move that the Saudi government is making in Yemen cannot be justified by
 any logic and argument. If someone sends an airplane to another country
 saying, "Why do you want such and such a person to rule? Why not such 
and such a person?" and if they decide to strike the people, target 
infrastructure, commit crimes, kill women and children and set 
everywhere on fire, there is no justification in this. And the Americans
 are supporting this unjustifiable move and this great crime.
Can dishonor and disgrace exist at a higher level than this? Today, 
America has no honor and dignity in the eyes of regional peoples. 
Everyone is watching this situation. The Americans are outspokenly 
saying that they support this move and they are not embarrassed at all. 
Then, they say to us, "Why do you send help [the people of Yemen]?" We 
wanted to send pharmaceutical aid. We wanted to send drugs for the sick.
 We did not want to send weapons because they do not need any. All 
Yemeni military bases and armies are in the hands of revolutionary 
people and this group "Ansarullah". They do not need our weapons. We 
wanted to send them drugs, but you laid a pharmaceutical siege on a 
people. You laid a food and energy siege on them and then you say, "No 
one should help them". 
You did not even allow the Red Crescent to provide some services. 
This is while they [Americans] themselves give military information to 
the Saudis. They give them weapons and resources and they provide them 
with political encouragement. They have no honor and reputation 
whatsoever. The path that the people of Iran have chosen is a 
reasonable, solid and promising path. Much to the dissatisfaction of the
 enemies, this path will produce results and the people of Iran will be 
successful. Then, the enemies will see that they have failed to reach 
their vicious goals against the people of Iran.
God's mercy be upon our dear martyrs, who laid down their lives, and 
upon our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) who opened this path for us. God's 
mercy be upon you dear, religious and enthusiastic brothers and sisters 
who show such great presence on the scene.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

