
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Officials of Martyrs of Semnan Commemoration Congress"/>
The task that you have carried out and - by Allah's favor - continue to carry out for commemorating the martyrs of your province is a very good and praiseworthy task. The issue of the imposed war and its results - one of which is the self-sacrificing acts and martyrdom of our martyrs - is not an ordinary issue. It is not a simple and normal issue, rather it is an extraordinary one. If we take a correct look, we see that the series of events that took place during those years and the sacrifices that our youth made can be a permanent provision for the Revolution. We should not let this provision remain untapped. The way to do so is to always keep the memory of the martyrs alive.
Well, Mr. Shah-Cheraghi raised certain points about the characteristics of Semnan province. I agree with what he said. I really believe that your province is a very blessed province. There are not a few religious and committed people and scientific, social and political personalities in this province. In the current administration and in the previous one, the presidents were from your province. You gentlemen should pay attention to this. Sometimes, some provinces feel jealous and say, "Why does no one from our province achieve such positions?" Thankfully, Semnan province is an outstanding province in terms of scientific, social, political, jihadi and other such personalities. There is no doubt about this.
In any case, this task is a very valuable one. In the present time, the task of commemorating martyrs and keeping alive the memory of these dear ones is an obligation. Some people want to consign the memory of martyrs to oblivion. These are the same people who are not on good terms with Revolutionary teachings, dreams and goals. They do not like and get along with commemorating martyrs either. But our people love martyrs because they made sacrifices. They forgot about their lives and comfort and they entered the arenas of battle to lay down their lives. This is not a minor accomplishment rather it is a very great one. One can say many things to show readiness, but in practice, this cannot be done by everyone. Entering this arena requires tremendous faith and strong and iron determination. Martyrs did this.
The task that you have carried out until now and whose report you delivered is very good. Such tasks are very good. Recording the memories of martyrs, praising and commemorating them and publishing their photos and their statements are very good tasks. The list that you presented about the measures that have been adopted is very good, but your goal should be to make the lessons of martyrdom and the meaning of self-sacrifice and faith exert a deep influence - in the real sense of the word - in your readers and addressees.
Addressees are not always similar to one another. I personally believe that the capabilities, determination, willpower and faith of today's youth are not less than those of the youth of 1360s. This is my belief which is based on familiarity, information, reports and study. I believe in this, but you should pay attention that today's youth in our country are subject to dangerous ideological threats. Such threats did not exist in the 1360s. This does not mean that there was not any motive to damage our youth at that time. This is not confined to 1360s, the present time and the past. They always existed and will continue to exist in the future. However, they did not have enough means. Today, there are many means. The means of mass communication that exist today and that can promote a wrong idea and thought at a vast scope did not exist in those days. Today, these means are available to everyone and they should receive our attention.
Now, you mentioned that for example you adopted such and such measures in the area of cell phones. This is very good. Such measures are very good and I do not deny it, but you should see what it is that can make our youth get involved in faith and self-sacrifice and that can deepen their commitment and strengthen their attachment. You should study this. This is not something that one can easily achieve. You should know your addressees. Today, our addressees are tens of millions of people most of whom are young, including those who are in universities, high schools or other environments. All of these people are our addressees. We should both know them and their capacities, and know how to address them. This is very important. You should see what you must say to them. 
Your intentions are very good and there is no doubt about it. Both your intentions, and your efforts and capabilities are good, but there are some tasks which require consulting with experts and those who have enough experience in them. You should not forget this and see how you can do it. In the present time, you can confine your activities to your province. Mr. Shah-Cheraghi said that Semnan is a small province, but it is not very small in terms of vastness. It may be a thinly populated province - it is not heavily populated - but it is not a small one. 
The areas of this province are different in terms of culture. For example, Semnan and Shahrud are not the same. You who are from this province know such things better than I do, but I am also familiar with your province. Considering the cultural variety that exists in your province, you should see how you can speak to the people of Semnan. You should see what things you should say to them so that it can influence them. If your congress can achieve such results, then it will really be an outstanding and great feat. You should also benefit from ulama and those who have experience in communicative areas. Then, you should make a selection from the matters that exist. 
You should also make maximum use of art. You referred to songs which are very important. If you can compose a beautiful, influential and meaningful song which makes kids sing it when they are walking in their alley or when they go to school, then you have accomplished a very great feat. This means using art in the correct way and it facilitates your job. In any case, you should make efforts and work hard.
Fortunately today, the country is not involved in a military war, but it is involved in a political, economic, security and - most importantly - cultural war. That is to say, this is a war. If someone does not know this, they will remain asleep. If someone does not know that there is a war, they will remain asleep. If you do not know that the enemy wants to launch an attack, where this attack comes from and how it is going to be launched, you should be sure that you will be defeated. You should know what the enemy is doing. Today, this is the scene of the country. When we speak about a "cultural and economic war", this does not contradict the existence of tranquility in the country. We are advocates of a feeling of security. We want the people to feel secure. That is to say, we do not want any beating and fighting whatsoever. We want everyone to feel secure. We love this, but it does not contradict what we said - that the enemy is fighting with us in a particular way. 
This particular way should be known and the way to confront it should be found. There are all sorts of methods that the enemy uses, but some people do not want to understand and believe it. This is because if they believe it, certain responsibilities will fall on their shoulders. And some people do not have the capability to understand it. But this is the truth of the matter. Today, there is a war in the country in different areas - as we said, in economic, cultural and political areas. "The warrior should be wakeful". After this, Hazrat [Imam Ali (a.s.)] says, "Because if he sleeps, the enemy does not sleep" [Nahjul Balaghah, Letter 62]. If you fall asleep in the front lines, this does not mean that the enemy has fallen asleep and that he is ignorant as well. If you forget the enemy, this is not a sign that he has forgotten you as well. This is not the case. You may be asleep, but he is awake. We should pay attention to this. So, the arena is a very important arena.
In any case, we thank you gentlemen who made an effort to launch this movement. Ten years is a good time for such extensive tasks. Mr. Shah-Cheraghi pointed out that they have been working on it for 10 years. I like those tasks that are carried out with poise and composure. If we immediately decide to do something today and carry it out in six months' time, this is not possible. Tasks should be carried out with poise and composure. Well, you carried out your task with composure. So, I hope that God will accept it from you and that you will be successful.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

