
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Laborers"/>
First, I would like to congratulate - in advance - all the dear 
brothers and sisters on the birthday anniversary of the Commander of the
 Faithful (a.s.) who is the manifestation of justice and an outstanding 
personality throughout history. Also, I express my congratulations on 
the occasion of the birthday anniversary of Hazrat Jawad al-Aemmah 
(greetings be upon him) which is today. The blessings of the month of 
Rajab are not confined to these. I advise myself and you to benefit from
 the blessings of the month of Rajab by strengthening our heartfelt 
relationship with Allah the Exalted. If all of us strengthen our 
relationship with God, many problems, obstacles and difficulties will be
 removed. I would like to thank the honorable Minister for the good and 
careful points that he raised in his speech. We agree with what he said.
 I ask that all officials - in the Ministry of Labor and in other 
governmental sectors as some of the issues discussed in the meeting are 
not related to your Ministry - try to pursue these bright guidelines.
We have to work. Well, we have discussed and repeated many good 
matters and we have made good decisions, but what influences the 
people's lives and the reality of labor is our dynamism, our work and 
the implementation of these decisions. I hope that Allah the Exalted 
will bestow success on you and us so that we can complete our movement.
Today's meeting with you dear laborers from throughout the country 
is, in fact, a symbol of our respect for laborers. We have said and 
continue to say many things in this regard. Today too, we will discuss a
 number of issues, but the main point is that by holding this meeting, 
we want to show our respect for laborers and labor. We want to highlight
 - more than before - the significance of labor in our minds and in the 
minds of the people of Iran. We should pay attention that all great 
achievements are made in the shade of labor in its broad sense. Labor is
 valuable. Thanks to the value of labor, laborers are very valuable in 
society. 
There is a well-known narration that the Holy Prophet of Islam 
(s.w.a.) kissed the hands of a laborer. This is not a mere formality. 
Rather, it is a lesson. Therefore, we want the value of labor to be 
appreciated. We want laborers to be respected. We want to draw 
officials' attention to matters related to laborers such as resolving 
the problems of laborers and their working environment. There are 
certain problems such as delays in paying their salary, dismissals, 
problems related to providing and the like. These are problems that 
exist at a public level and for the society of laborers. Officials 
should pay more attention to these matters. This is the purpose of our 
meeting. 
What I feel is that from the beginning of the Revolution until today,
 laborers have really carried out valuable tasks for the country. These 
tasks are primarily related to the value of labor and laborers, secondly
 to their presence in difficult arenas of the country in the course of 
many years and thirdly to their refusal to be deceived by those who 
wanted to pit laborers against the Islamic Republic from the very first 
day. Laborers made this great self-sacrifice while they had many 
problems in different eras. So, laborers have emerged victorious out of 
this test.
As I said, the problems that exist are not solved by talking. It is 
necessary to take action and to show innovation. Second, the solution to
 the economic problems of the country should be found inside the 
country. Production is the spinal cord [of economy]. The spinal cord of 
the economy of resistance - which we have spoken about before - is 
strengthening domestic production. If this is done and if our effort is 
focused on this matter, then labor problems will gradually be solved, 
labor and laborers will become valuable, everyone will be employed and 
unemployment - which is a problem in our society - will gradually be 
reduced and removed. The main basis is production.
Some people might say that there are certain prerequisites for the 
issue of production which you always repeat and stress in your public 
speeches and in your meetings with officials. They might say that in the
 current conditions - sanctions and international pressures - it is not 
possible to boost and strengthen production. I do not deny that the 
unjust sanctions that the enemies of the people of Iran and the 
Revolution have imposed on our nation are not ineffectual. Without a 
doubt, they exert some influence, but I deny that these sanctions can 
prevent a public, well-organized and well-planned effort for boosting 
production. I do not agree with this. When I take a look at the country,
 I see that production has particularly increased in those areas where 
the enemies have exerted more pressures and imposed more sanctions. This
 has been achieved because of the efforts that officials and our 
enthusiastic laborers and youth made. I can witness this. It is in front
 of everyone's eyes. 
Compare the present time with 15, 20 or even 10 years ago in terms of
 the country's achievement in the area of military products. We have 
made astonishing and mesmerizing achievements in the area of military 
products. This is while the enemies have exerted more sanctions on the 
military and these sanctions are not related to this year or last year. 
They have existed since long ago and they have exerted many pressures, 
but we made progress. We have also made many achievements in the area of
 biological sciences and biotechnology while the same restrictions and 
sanctions existed. Even some well-known universities in the world did 
not allow Iranian students to take these courses and to make progress in
 them. Despite what they did, the country has made outstanding and 
visible achievements in these sciences and everyone can witness them.
If those who are curious and want to have information in this regard-
 these are not confidential matters- they can obtain such information. 
Another achievement is in new sciences such as nanotechnology. These are
 among new technologies in the world and no one has helped us in them. 
From now on too, they are not going to help us. We are advanced in such 
sciences. Our experts, our youth, our researchers and our scientists are
 working on them and making great efforts. They have made eye-catching 
achievements in such areas.
They are also working on knowledge-based industries. Recently, an 
exhibition was held in this Hussainiyah and I met with the youth who are
 active in these industries. I also visited the different divisions of 
knowledge-based companies. Of course, I was already aware of their 
activities and I had received certain reports, but I got a chance to see
 these people up close. They are making great efforts and moving 
forward. Today, we have made much progress in the area of 
knowledge-based companies compared to 10, 15 years ago. All these 
achievements have been made while we were under sanctions. But if the 
cruel sanctions of the enemies had not existed, it would have been 
possible for us to even make more progress. We do not deny this. Of 
course, there is another probability. We might have shown negligence by 
ignoring the needs of the country. We might have attended to affairs - 
by relying on the money that we received from oil, imports and other 
such things - that do not bring about any progress for the country. This
 was also possible.
We should really pay attention to the fact that part of our 
achievements was made due to the obstacles that foreigners created for 
us. We should appreciate the value of this. They did not give us 
anything and we had to act on our own. When the path of importation 
becomes wide open and when we import whatever we like, then our desire 
for self-indulgence draws us towards laziness and idleness. This is 
another side of the matter. Therefore, when I place emphasis on the 
issue of production, some people should not say that production is not 
possible under severe and strict sanctions. This is not the case. It is 
possible to do so. Whatever you decide to do will be possible if you 
show determination, bring all your power to the arena and ask Allah the 
Exalted for His help and guidance. We have tested this.
In the present time, we play a leading role in the world in some 
industries. One example is in the area of building dams. Who in the 
world helped us reach this point in the area of building dams? Today, 
Iran is among leading countries in this area. Some companies in western 
countries build dams at an enormous cost. If Iranian youth were in 
charge, they would build much better dams at much lower costs. This is 
an area in which we have made progress. Who helped us in the course of 
these long years? The same is true of the nuclear issue and many other 
issues.
I believe that the economic problems of the country - the most 
important of which are matters related to laborers and their 
unemployment and living problems - will be solved if the issue of 
production receives attention. We receive and read certain reports about
 these problems, but attention to production will create job 
opportunities and it will engender a feeling of dignity and 
self-reliance. When a country relies on its domestic capabilities, it 
will feel self-reliant. In the process of becoming self-reliant, we may 
want to resolve tens of matters with the world, but our power or 
weakness will make a huge difference when we are at the negotiating 
table. When you feel powerful, you negotiate in a certain way. When you 
feel weak, you will negotiate in a completely different way. If the 
domestic structure of power is solid and firm in all areas - including 
the economy - then we can negotiate with different sides over all 
matters. In order to do so, we should negotiate with the other side in a
 powerful way, not in a way that it displays our needs. This will 
embolden the enemy and it will encourage him to set terms and say a load
 of nonsense all the time. I find the cure in this. I say - I said it in
 the beginning of the year as well - that everyone should focus all 
their efforts on the issue of production.
Of course, this has certain prerequisites. Investors, laborers, 
consumers and governmental organizations have certain responsibilities. 
This task is not an individual one. Everyone should cooperate. When we 
speak about the people's harmony and unanimity with the administration, 
this is what it means. It means that everyone should cooperate so that 
they can clear the path of the country from this big boulder [blocking 
the path] .
Investors and those who are well-to-do should invest. I knew some 
individuals who could have invested their money in lucrative businesses 
which were not related to production, but they did not do so. They said,
 "We will not do this because we want to render services to the 
country". They invested in production with less profit because they 
understood that the country needs it. Well, this is an act of worship. 
An investor who thinks about the needs of the country, who does not 
invest his money in speculation or lucrative but harmful businesses and 
who invests it in production instead is doing a very good deed. 
Therefore, investors play a major role.
Hardworking laborers play a role as well. A laborer who endures the 
difficulty of work and who dedicates his life, his time and his energy 
to working properly is, in fact, worshipping God. Work is difficulty 
anyway. Physical work is a difficult task in life. In my meetings with 
you dear ones, I have repeatedly cited this narration from the Holy 
Prophet (s.w.a.): "God bless those who take on a responsibility and do 
it appropriately". May God show mercy on those who work properly, 
whether industrial, agricultural or different other types of labor. When
 work is done properly, one's product will turn out to be perfect. This 
is the role of laborers which is an act of worship.
Fair-minded and conscientious consumers can also help the production 
of the country. They should not look for famous products and brands 
only. Some people constantly speak about brands. They should not look 
for brands and popular models in the world. They should pay attention to
 the interests of the country. The interests of the country lie in 
consuming domestic products and helping Iranian laborers. There are some
 people who chant slogans in favor of laborers and they make extravagant
 claims, but in practice, they are kicking Iranian laborers. Kicking 
Iranian laborers means refusing to use the products that our laborers 
manufacture. It means using foreign products which are sometimes much 
more expensive.
In some industries, we are among leading countries in the world, but 
some people import the same products from outside the country. This is 
the responsibility of everyone including the administration. The 
honorable Minister of Labor is present here. I request that you bring 
this up and insist on it in the administration. Those products and goods
 that governmental organizations need and use should not at all be 
brought from outside the country. This is a major and great matter. 
Considering the vast scope of its activities, the administration is a 
number one consumer. Executive officials should not say, "We need such 
and such a thing urgently, but it does not exist in the country. 
Therefore, we should bring it from outside the country". 
Well, do you not plan? If you need it urgently, why do you say it 
now? You should have said it two years ago so that domestic manufactures
 would have enough time to plan and to build and test it. This way, you 
could have it today. These are important, not minor, issues. The 
administration should prevent itself from using those foreign products 
which can be manufactured inside the country, ranging from pens and 
paper on your desks to building materials and other products. It should 
consider this haraam for itself. Government officials should prevent 
self-indulgence, the desire for ease and comfort- these are the least of
 problems that exist- and, God forbid, abuse. 
We have experienced, tested and witnessed this. Once - many years ago
 - a task was being carried out in the country. They were building 
something. I summoned the officials in charge and I asked them not to 
use any foreign product in what they were doing. They promised to do so 
and they kept their promise honorably. When we received a report and 
carried out an investigation in the end, we found out that 98 percent of
 the materials were produced inside the country. Only two percent did 
not exist in the country and they imported it. Well, this is possible. 
So, consumers are one of the major bases of strengthening and promoting 
domestic products. 
Another major base is the system of combating smuggling. We have 
placed great emphasis on combating smuggling. Different administrations 
have come and gone in the course of these years [but they did not attend
 to this matter]. Well, this is something that should be done and it is 
possible. They should not say that it is not. It is completely possible.
 They should prevent smuggling in a very decisive way. Once I said that 
the administration should not only pursue the issue of smuggling in our 
borders. Today, billions of dollars are being allocated to smuggling. 
Because they release many different figures, I cannot exactly say how 
much. You should pursue smuggling before and when they enter our borders
 and when they find their way into shops. This is a very important 
matter and task. Those who are working on it are doing jihadi work and 
worshipping God as well. This is also among good religious deeds. 
Another important pillar are import-control organizations. These 
organizations should adopt a careful outlook as well. There are some 
affairs which are not in the hands of the administration. These tasks 
are carried out by the private sector and there is no other option. 
However, governmental organizations can manage them with supervision. 
They should act in a way that the issue of importation does not harm 
domestic production.
Another issue is the responsibility of promotional organizations and 
the media. The media can play a role as well. The IRIB and other media 
should work, in the real sense of the word, on promoting domestic 
products. All these tasks are effective.
Another issue is the stability of laws. This is the responsibility of
 the Majlis. They should take care not to change laws related to 
economic matters - such as matters related to labor - on a daily basis 
so that it is possible to plan.
The cultural officials of the country too should plan cultural work. 
They should criticize idleness, laziness and avoidance of hard work. 
Hard work should be endured. If we do not endure hard work, we do not 
get anywhere. We should not like easy work only. We should endure hard 
work, wherever it exists. Those who managed to reach a peak in industry,
 technology and scientific matters imposed hard work on themselves. This
 requires creating a culture. If we only want to do easy work, things 
will not move forward.
Officials in charge of combating corruption have a role as well. 
Corruption is frequently spoken about, but this is of no use. If we only
 shout "thief, thief", thieves do not stop their work. We should enter 
the arena. The officials of the country are not journalists. It is 
journalists in newspapers who speak about corruption. You and I who are 
officials should take action. Why so much talk? You should enter the 
arena. If we know how to act, we should combat corruption in the real 
sense of the word.
These are our responsibilities. These are the responsibilities of our
 different sectors. This is the cure for solving the economic problems 
of the country. If we want to solve the economic problems of the 
country, we should focus on production. Everyone is responsible in the 
way that we explained. Of course, some responsibilities are heavier and 
some are lighter, but everyone is responsible in some way. The key to 
solving economic problems does not exist in Lausanne, Geneva and New 
York. It exists inside the country. If everyone works hard and shows 
diligence, problems will -by Allah's favor - be solved. The people of 
Iran and the officials of the country have accomplished even greater 
feats in the course of these years. So, they can also resolve the issue 
of production. The current administration is thankfully working hard in 
an enthusiastic way. There are a number of well-informed individuals in 
the administration. They should make efforts, work hard and pursue the 
matter. By Allah's favor, they should solve problems.
To be fair, the society of laborers in our country is a noble 
society. The society of our laborers is a noble society. I was 
completely aware of the efforts that were made - from the very first day
 of the Revolution and even before the decisive victory of the 
Revolution - to pit laborers against the Revolution. I was aware of and I
 witnessed these efforts during the time of those astonishing rallies 
and demonstrations in the year 1357. I witnessed these efforts up close.
 The same effort has been made in the course of many years. Even during 
my presidency and after that, there were some people who wanted to pit 
laborers against the Islamic Republic, but our laborers have endured 
problems and shown resistance with complete power, stability and 
modesty. This is very valuable. 
The officials of the country should appreciate the value of these 
great laborers who endure problems and who work hard. The reward for 
this nobility of character is that everyone should work hard so that by 
Allah's favor, they can solve their problems. Allah the Exalted too will
 definitely help those who have good intentions, who do good work and 
who move towards good goals.
I hope that Allah the Exalted will bestow His mercy and blessings on 
all you dear laborers and on all officials in this sector. I hope that 
He will associate martyred labors and our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) - who 
opened this path for us - with the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.).
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings


