
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Police Commanders"/>
First, I would like to welcome all the dear brothers and sisters, the
 high-ranking officials of the Police Force - who fulfill one of the 
most important and fundamental needs of the people and who have 
shouldered a great responsibility - and the honorable Interior Minister 
who is present in the meeting. I hope that by Allah's favor, all of you 
will be successful.
All of us should congratulate one another on our divine opportunity 
to enter the month of Rajab once more. The month of Rajab is an 
opportunity to get close to divine values and to God. It is an 
opportunity to engage in self-edification. The days which have been 
introduced as outstanding days in our narrations are all opportunities. 
Any opportunity is a blessing and any blessing requires that we thank 
God. Thanking God for His blessings means that we know blessings, behave
 according to their requirements, benefit from them, consider them as 
works of God and use them in His way. The month of Rajab is one of these
 blessings. The month of Sha'ban comes next and it is another blessing. 
From the viewpoints of saints, believers and mystics, these two months 
are an introduction to the month of Ramadan. The month of Ramadan is the
 month of transcendence, transcending, piety and purity and we need all 
these things. You should appreciate the month of Rajab. In this month, 
you should get close to the God of the creation as much as you can. You 
should remember God and carry out your tasks for the sake of Him. You 
should make efforts and work for the sake of God.
Your job is one that can easily be done with divine intentions. All 
tasks and jobs can be done for God. Even the effort to make a living can
 be made for God and we can do it with divine intentions, but some tasks
 - including yours - are much easier in this regard. This is because 
your job is to render services to society, the people, the Islamic 
Republic and Islam. Your job is to help Islam. A dear youth in this 
meeting recited an ayah: "Oh you who believe, be helpers of Allah" [The 
Holy Quran: 61: 14]. It means that we should help God and be among His 
helpers and assistants. Well, your job is a manifestation of helping 
God. It can really help Islam, religion and the people. When you say, 
"Oh God, the service that I render, the hours that I spend in the office
 and in my post, the effort that I make for improving my work and the 
extra minutes that I remain in the office are all for you" this is an 
opportunity to work for God. You should benefit from the blessings of 
this month one of which is what I referred to.
First, I deem it necessary to thank the Police Force. Well, good 
tasks are being carried out. We may have some criticisms in one, two, 
five cases, but the truth is that the effort made by the Police Force 
throughout the country is really a praiseworthy effort. One example is 
your effort during Norouz holidays. During Norouz holidays, all the 
people stay home with their relatives and their children, but your 
youth, your employees and your agents are busy attending to others' 
affairs on roads and in cities. They render services in different ways -
 on roads, in cities, in police stations and on the streets. This is 
very valuable and it is necessary to express our gratitude. I express my
 gratitude to you.
The significance of the Police Force - on which we place great 
emphasis - results from the significance of its mission. The 
significance of any person lies in the significance of the 
responsibility that they shoulder. Individuals and the organizations in 
which they work enjoy as much significance as their responsibility does.
 The mission that you have undertaken is to establish security in the 
country. Security is very important. In those places where security does
 not exist, the people appreciate its value. If men, women, youth and 
children go out without being sure that they will return to their 
houses, if streets, alleys and country roads are unsafe, if citizens 
expect incidents and accidents and if people feel insecure in their 
houses, they understand how important security is. Providing and 
establishing security all over the country is your job. The most 
important organization and group which shoulders this important 
responsibility is the Police Force. This is a very important task. 
Therefore, when we take a look at this responsibility, the Police Force 
becomes very important.
Well, security is not a formality and it is not achieved by talking. 
One cannot say without any evidence, "We have established security". 
Even if you say hundreds of times in different notifications, 
announcements and speeches that you established security in such and 
such a street, your words will not convince the people when they go out 
at night and face insecurity on that street. "Two hundred words are not 
as effective as half an action" [from a poem from Ferdowsi]. The people 
should feel secure. Feeling secure is dependent on the real existence of
 security. Security should really exist.
Of course, good tasks have been carried out. The honorable commander 
in the meeting referred to some good figures. I have seen them in 
reports as well and these are valuable, but you should not be satisfied 
with it. Your intention should be to increase the level of security and 
safety. It is not enough to, for example, decrease the percentage of 
road accidents. You should act in a way that road accidents and 
robberies do not take place at all. You should act in a way that 
insecurity and incidents do not exist at all. When you try to do so, 
tasks will naturally be carried out in an persistant way. When you show 
diligence, tasks will always move forward.
An important matter in this regard is that when we speak about social
 and individual security, we do not mean that you should only try to 
prevent individuals from being mugged on the street when they go from 
home to their office, shop and school. Of course, one area of security 
is protecting individuals against physical harm. Without a doubt, this 
is one part of security, but there are other areas of security which are
 more delicate but much more dangerous. One example is insecurity 
stemming from dealing drugs. If the people - particularly and mainly the
 youth - who go to parks, tourist attractions, streets and schools are 
not secure from drug dealing, this insecurity is very dangerous. If our 
youth are not secure from those who draw them to decadence and 
wrongdoings, this is a great insecurity. You are probably aware of the 
situation. We too have received certain reports that by spending massive
 amounts of money and by taking orders from certain centers, some people
 try to draw our youth to decadence and wrongdoings in night-time 
parties held in different places.
This is different from the wrong and irreligious move that a youth 
may make alone. This is drawing youth to dangerous wrongdoings. 
Therefore, you should not allow them to do so. You should prevent it. 
Imagine that our streets are safe from different forms of physical harm,
 but our youth are not safe from different temptations from inside 
schools, universities, parks and stores and from friendships in local 
streets. From these places, some people draw our youth to night-time 
parties and familiarize them with decadence and different wrongdoings. 
Another example is rape. These are things that are among different areas
 of security. If we have a kind of security that does not include these 
things, then it is not, in fact, security. After all, drugs, harassing 
women and drawing youth to decadence and other such things are very 
significant matters.
Another issue is that according to what I have heard, some youth who 
are drunk with wealth - with arrogance resulting from wealth - get into 
expensive and fashionable cars and mess around on the streets. This way,
 they make streets insecure. This too is a type of insecurity. You 
should have plans and work hard in the face of any kind of insecurity. 
These are things which form the different aspects of security.
Another important issue which I have discussed many times is the 
issue of the power of the Police Force. The Police Force is the 
manifestation of the authority of the Islamic Republic in establishing 
security. One of the responsibilities of the Islamic Republic is to 
establish security in society. As you explained, moral and social 
security is one of our responsibilities. It is one of the 
responsibilities of the Islamic Republic and therefore, we cannot 
abandon it. The Police Force is the manifestation of this security. It 
is the agent which is in the middle of this arena. Therefore, you should
 have power. You should be able to act in a powerful way. You should be 
able to act with decisiveness and authority.
However, an important point in this regard is that showing power 
should not be confused with showing oppression. You should not confuse 
power with crossing boundaries and moving forward in an unbridled way. 
For example, in some countries - such as America - the police is very 
powerful. They show muscle-bound people on camera who work as police 
officers and who arrest the people in the middle of the arena. Well, 
they are powerful, but they kill the innocent. For example, they kill a 
person by shooting 15, 16 bullets at him with the excuse that he wanted 
to draw a gun. This power is not an ideal power because it is 
accompanied by oppression. This is a kind of power which will not lead 
to security in the end. On the contrary, it will lead to insecurity. In 
fact, it is the main factor in creating insecurity. And as you have 
heard, when they go to a court of law, they acquit them.
Unfortunately today as you can witness, these events are many in a 
world that is indifferent to spiritual values. Now, the funny part is 
that in America - whose president is a black - many crimes are committed
 against blacks. They have a celebration on the occasion of abolishing 
slavery, which was done by a certain president, but they oppress blacks 
in a very cruel way. Of course, there are certain criticisms about the 
abolishment of slavery. They say that Abraham Lincoln abolished slavery,
 but this is not the truth of the matter according to historical 
research that has been carried out in a careful way. The issue was not 
the issue of abolishing slavery. Rather, it was the issue of the north 
and the south. It was the issue of long and deep-rooted wars between the
 north and south of America. It was a fight between landowners and 
agriculture, and industry. This was the main source of contention. They 
did not abolish slavery because of altruistic feelings. 
In any case, despite this celebration, blacks are ignored and 
humiliated. Besides, their lives are in danger as well. Such police 
power is not what Islam and we want. We do not at all like to give a 
cinematic and Hollywood-like color to our police work on the streets. We
 want tasks to be carried out in the real sense of the word. That is to 
say, we want complete authority and power accompanied by justice, 
kindness and mercy - in certain cases, power should be accompanied by 
mercy. This is the manifestation of Islam. On the one hand, the Holy 
Being is Beneficent and Merciful and on the other hand, He is a Great 
Punisher. These two things should be considered together. This should 
spread in the different levels of the pyramid and affect our lives, 
behavior and affairs. The same thing should be done in the Police Force.
Another matter which in my opinion is very important is observing the
 law. Observing the law has two aspects: one is in your contact with the
 people. You should see in which places the law is violated and then you
 should confront it. Another aspect of observing the law is in the 
Police Force itself. The members of the Police Force should observe the 
law inside the organization in the true sense of the word. Observing the
 law should receive attention there more than anywhere else. Another 
issue is the moral health of the personnel. During the recent years, I 
have always offered this advice to former commanders and now too, I 
would like to stress that the honorable Commander of the Police Force 
and other police officials should not take lightly the issue of the 
moral health of the personnel. The moral health of the personnel is very
 important. 
You are different from other military forces. You are among the 
people and the people are in contact with you. God forbid, any 
wrongdoing, flaw, problem, misbehavior and wrong measure will 
immediately be reflected. This is the case for the Police Force more 
than any other organization. Perhaps there are very few organizations in
 the country which are in contact with the people as much as you are. 
Therefore if - God forbid - there is any problem, wrongdoing and 
treachery, it will immediately spread among the people. When it spreads,
 it is not only the reputation of the Police Force that will be ruined. 
Rather, everyone's reputation will be ruined. As we said, the Police 
Force is the representative of the Islamic government. It is the 
representative of the Islamic Republic among the people. This is why you
 should attach great significance to the moral health of the personnel.
The Police Force can really build the reputation of the Islamic 
Republic. Even if five, ten organizations do not carry out their duties,
 but the Police Force acts as a righteous, strong, decisive and 
efficient force, this will enhance the reputation of the Islamic 
Republic at a public level. Your performance can be a source of dignity.
 God forbid, the opposite can happen as well. Therefore, these points - 
the most important of which is intra-organizational health - should 
receive attention. This moral health should receive attention because it
 will affect others outside the organization as well.
Well, the report that the honorable commander delivered contained the
 fact that spiritual, moral, religious and ideological areas have 
received attention in the Police Force. This is very good. Attention to 
those scientific developments and innovations which are related to your 
work and which emerge in the world on a daily basis is a very essential 
task and it will improve police work.
You should rely on Allah the Exalted. You should work for God and 
fulfill your duties in the right way. If you do so, Allah the Exalted 
will bestow blessings on you. He will bestow His blessings on your work 
and He will turn you into a source of blessing for the Islamic Republic.
 We will pray for you as well. I hope that God will make all of you 
successful. I hope that He will enable you to carry out the necessary 
tasks. There are some tasks in different areas that should be carried 
out with a joint effort. Other officials should cooperate in 
accomplishing them. I hope that in cooperation with one another, you 
will accomplish great feats.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

