
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Panegyrists"/>
All praise is due to Allah, and peace and greetings be upon our 
Master and Prophet, Muhammad and upon his immaculate household. Allah's 
curse be upon all their enemies. Allah, send as many greetings to 
Fatima, her father, her husband and her children as Your knowledge 
encompasses.
I would like to congratulate all lovers of wilayat, prophethood, the 
Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household and genuine virtue on this auspicious 
birthday anniversary. I welcome you dear ones. Each and every one of you
 enjoys a special position and status. Later on, I will expand on this 
matter. Before I begin my statements, I would like to commemorate the 
memory of the late Mr. Ahi (God's mercy be upon him), who was a 
committed, responsible, well-intentioned and diligent panegyrist.
I have known the late Mr. Ahi since early 1340s. In Mashhad, a group 
of panegyrists of the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household had gathered 
together and he was an active member of this group. Of course, I did not
 have the chance to establish a close relationship with him, but I 
managed to meet him. For many years, I used to know him from afar. Later
 on, I met with him in person. I hope that God will raise his position. 
He was committed, responsible and enthusiastic in the real sense of the 
word. He was committed to panegyrics in particular. I used to meet with 
him in this place every year. God's mercy be upon him. I hope that God 
will bestow his forgiveness on him and on us.
Today, I want to discuss three issues: one is about you - that is to 
say, about panegyrics and this very blessed profession - another is 
about the nuclear issue, which has become a popular issue in our country
 in the present time, and the last one is about the issue of Yemen. I 
will briefly discuss these three matters with you dear ones and - in 
fact - with the people of Iran.
As for the first issue, being a panegyrist is a very noble 
profession. Why is that? It is because throughout history, there have 
been some people who praised and eulogized oppressive, cruel and 
bullying rulers. Such panegyrists exist in the present time as well. 
Today too, there are some people in the world who sing the praises of 
the most malevolent people. They use their pens to praise such people in
 order to earn some money - filthy and evil money. On the contrary, your
 tongues, your breath, your lungs and your artistic power are at the 
service of eulogizing virtue. The Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) household are 
the household of virtue from head to toe. Those who eulogize the sun are
 eulogizing themselves. By eulogizing the virtues of the Holy Prophet's 
(s.w.a.) household, you are - in fact - eulogizing yourselves. By doing 
so, you are showing the nobility of this profession. A few years ago, I 
recited a poem from the late Saghir-e Esfahani in the same meeting which
 was related to Fatima Zahra (God's greetings be upon her): 
"A narration says that the Holy Prophet saw a number of camels during the Night of Isra.
I myself am a camel from that caravan.
If you do not believe this and want a proof,
You can take a look at his book of panegyric which is in my hands.
This is the load that I carry."
May God bestow His mercy on Saghir-e Esfahani. So, you hold the book 
of eulogizing virtue in your hands and this is a great honor. You are 
lucky. Therefore, you should appreciate the value of this profession. 
You should appreciate the value of these characteristics and this 
opportunity. This was the first point about panegyrics.
The second point is that today, the society of panegyrists in our 
country has a very great opportunity at its disposal. You organize 
certain meetings in which a large number of people participate. 
Sometimes, a thousand people - most of whom are young - participate in 
your minbar and listen to your eulogies and elegies. Which opportunity 
is better than this? So many participants and so many hearts are 
prepared to listen to you and benefit from your panegyrics. So many 
individuals with the potential to be cultivated are available to you. 
This is an opportunity: "You should appreciate the value of 
opportunities because they are fleeting like a cloud which flies away". 
You should appreciate the value of this opportunity and you should make 
the most of it.
The third point is: how can we make the most of this opportunity? The
 best way to do so is to promote religious teachings. You should promote
 the same teachings for which these great personalities and these signs 
of greatness and virtue laid down their lives and for which they endured
 so many difficulties and hardships. As a result of their efforts, the 
event of Ashura and the tragic events of the early Islamic era took 
place. What was the purpose of these efforts and events? Their purpose 
was to promote religious teachings. You should use this opportunity to 
promote religious teachings and to draw the young generation towards 
implementing religion, sharia and the great responsibilities which are 
particular to this era.
Today, our country, our people and the world of Islam are in need of 
correct understanding and actions, and resistance. The people of Iran 
are a role model and the youth is their engine. These youth are 
available to you. By taking a brief look, you can see that the engine of
 the world of Islam is available to you. Therefore, you should promote 
religious teachings. 
You should teach the people and the youth what they need to be pure, 
to lead a clean and Islamic lifestyle, to become Muslims in the real 
sense of the word and to achieve happiness. You have the capability to 
do so. Throughout history, when did we have such a large number of 
meetings in which all these youth gather and entrust their hearts to 
you? During our youth in Mashhad, if they had counted the number of 
panegyrists, they would not have exceeded five, six. In Tehran, the 
number of panegyrists was only a little larger. There are so many 
meetings, vocalists and sweet voices. There is so much art. Under such 
circumstances, poets too use their talents and compose poems. You should
 appreciate the value of this opportunity. This is another point.
And the last point is about avoiding deviation and superstition. You 
should avoid creating obstacles on the way of the youths' beliefs. 
Sometimes, we say something which creates a knot in the minds of our 
young audience. Who can loosen this knot then? How can this knot - which
 we create in the minds of youth with our flawed and wrong words and 
with our negligence and irresponsiveness, and which creates an obstacle 
on the way of their beliefs - be loosened? This is a responsibility. Is 
it correct if we turn the mourning and panegyric ceremony for the Master
 of Martyrs - whose greatness lies in his martyrdom, self-sacrifice in 
the way of God, giving everything away including one's desires and 
dreams - into a shallow ceremony where a number of youth take off their 
cloths and jump up and down with no clear purpose? Is this a good way to
 thank God for the gift that He has bestowed upon you? 
Your good voice is a divine gift. Your capability to manage such 
meetings is a divine gift. These are gifts that God has not bestowed on 
everyone. He has given them to you and therefore, you should thank Him 
for them. I love, from the bottom of my heart, the society of 
panegyrists for such characteristics. I pray for you. I hope that God 
will help you to succeed.
I should add that the Iranian society's and the entire region's 
expectations of the society of panegyrists are high. I cannot say 
anything in praise of Hazrat Siddiqat at-Tahirah al-Marziah, al-Raziah 
(God's greetings and the greetings of all prophets, angels and righteous
 servants of God be upon her). You raised certain points about her in 
your speeches, but words fail me in saying anything in praise of that 
personality. So, I will not discuss this matter.
The second issue is the nuclear issue. Some people asked and continue
 to ask, "Why did he not adopt a position on the nuclear issue?" The 
answer is that there is no reason to adopt a position. Our nuclear 
officials and those who are involved in the nuclear negotiations have 
told us that nothing has been done yet and that no binding agreement has
 been signed between the two sides. So, what position should I adopt? If
 they ask me whether I agree or disagree with the initial agreement, my 
answer is that I neither agree nor disagree because nothing has happened
 yet. Nothing has been done yet. The main problem is the details that 
are going to be discussed at length. The officials have said this to us 
and to the people in their interviews. The main problem is after this 
stage. 
The other side - which is an obstinate and deceitful side, which goes
 back on its promises and likes to haggle, is backstabbing and has a 
tendency to do such evil things - may want to confine our country, our 
people and our negotiators inside a circle on the issue of details. We 
have done nothing yet. No binding contract has been signed yet. That 
some people congratulate me and others is meaningless. Why should they 
express their congratulations? What has been done until today neither 
guarantees the essence nor the content of the agreement. It guarantees 
neither of these things. It does not even guarantee that the nuclear 
negotiations will be concluded and lead to an agreement. The initial 
agreement is like this. Everything remains to be settled in the future. 
I want to raise a few points about the nuclear issue. I have never 
been optimistic about negotiations with America. This pessimism is not 
based on an illusion- rather- it is based on experience. We have 
experienced this. If one day - when we are no longer around - you have 
access to the details of these events and to the writings about these 
days, you will definitely see how we gained this experience. However, 
despite the fact that I was not optimistic about negotiating with 
America, I did not express my opposition to these specific negotiations.
 I gave my blessing and I supported our negotiators with all my heart 
and soul and I continue to support them in the present time. 
If an agreement is made that guarantees the interests of the people 
of Iran and preserves their dignity, I will support and welcome it one 
hundred percent. Everyone should know this. If someone says that we are 
opposed to reaching an agreement, they have not spoken the truth. If an 
agreement is made which ensures the interests of the people and the 
country, I will completely approve of it. Of course, we said that no 
agreement is better than making a bad one. This is what the Americans 
have said as well. This formula is a correct formula. No agreement is 
better than making an agreement which ignores the interests of the 
people, destroys national dignity and humiliates the great people of 
Iran. Under such circumstances, no agreement is far better than making 
such an agreement. This is the first point. 
The next point is that I have not interfered and I will not interfere
 in the details of the negotiations. I have always pointed out the main 
guidelines, the important frameworks and the red lines to the officials 
of the country - particularly to the honorable President. I regularly 
hold meetings with him. I have also pointed out these issues to the 
honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs on few occasions. So, I only point
 out the main and general guidelines to them. I do not touch on the 
small details that do not interfere with those larger guidelines. These 
details are within the remit of their responsibilities. It is they who 
can work on them. If it is said that the details of these negotiations 
are supervised by the Leadership, this is not correct. Of course, I feel
 responsible. I have never been indifferent towards this matter. There 
are certain general guidelines some of which I will refer to. Of course,
 I have referred to them in my meetings with the people and I have 
discussed them with officials in a more detailed way.
The third point is that as I said before, I trust the officials 
involved in the nuclear matter. You should know this. We trust the 
gentlemen who are involved in the nuclear matter and I have no doubts 
about them. By Allah's favor, there will be no doubts about them from 
now on either. I have no doubts about them whatsoever. However, I have 
serious concerns which result from the other side's deceitfulness, lies 
and tendency to go back on its promises and move in the wrong direction.
 The other side is like this. 
One example is their behavior in the nuclear negotiations. A few 
hours after our negotiators concluded their negotiations with them, the 
White House issued a proclamation to explain the results of the 
negotiations. The proclamation that they issued - they refer to it as a 
"fact sheet" - was wrong about many things. That is to say, their 
interpretation of the negotiations and the agreements that have been 
made is a flawed, wrong and false interpretation. They brought me this 
proclamation and I read it. It is four, five pages. These four, five 
pages have not been prepared in the course of two, three hours. In the 
middle of negotiations, they sat and prepared this proclamation. Notice 
that the other side is like this. When it is speaking to you and when 
certain agreements are made, it prepares a proclamation which is 
contrary to what is going on between you and it. As soon as negotiations
 are over, it releases it. The other side is like this. The other side 
is untrustworthy and deceitful. 
They make certain statements and then they say that these statements 
are for the sake of appearances. They write these things in order to put
 on a brave and strong face to their opponents inside their country. 
Well, such things are none of our business. But if such statements are 
supposed to be the criterion for our movement, then what they wrote in 
this proclamation will definitely not be the criterion. Of course, they 
say the same thing about us. They said that the Leadership may express a
 so-called opposition to the initial agreement for the sake of 
appearances. Well, "...kafirs think that everyone thinks as they do" [a 
well-known Persian saying]. 
What we say to the people is based on mutual trust. The people have 
trusted this humble person and I trust each and every one of them. I 
trust this public movement. I believe that "Allah's hand is with the 
community" [Nahjul Balaghah, Sermon 127]. I believe that this is God's 
hand. Take a look at the 22nd of Bahman with the cold and the hardships 
that existed. Take a look at Quds Day with its burning heat. The people 
participated in Quds rallies while they were fasting. Who brought them 
to the streets? What could they possibly gain from coming into the 
streets? It was God's hand that brought them to the streets. When we see
 [the presence of] God, we trust this popular movement, feeling, 
sincerity and acumen. We speak to one another in a sincere way, but the 
other side acts in a different way and they think we are like them. This
 is why I have such concerns. In the present time, I have certain 
concerns about how they will proceed.
Another point is that some people expressed their agreement and some 
expressed their disagreement. In our newspapers, in the press and in 
internet websites, some people speak in favor of and some speak against 
the initial agreement. In my opinion, we should neither exaggerate nor 
hurry. We should see what will happen in the future. I said this to 
officials a few days ago. Officials should inform the people and - 
particularly - outstanding personalities of details and facts. We have 
nothing confidential and secret. This is the manifestation of harmony 
with the people. We had spoken about harmony and unanimity. Harmony is 
not something that can be forced on the people. It is not a set of 
instructions that can be dictated to them. This is not harmony. Rather, 
harmony is like a flower or a seed. It should be planted in the soil. 
Then, we should look after and water it and we should avoid harming it 
so that it can grow. Without this, harmony will not be achieved. Harmony
 is even better than unanimity. Of course, unanimity is good as well:
"It is possible that an Indian and a Turk have a perfect understanding of each other
And that two Turks behave like strangers
Therefore, understanding one another is of a different kind
Harmony is even better than speaking the same language."
So, harmony is necessary and it should be generated and grown. This 
is my advice to everyone. The present time is a good opportunity for 
achieving harmony. Some people are opposed to the initial agreement and 
they make certain objections. Well, our officials are honest people. 
They care about national interests. So, they should invite a number of 
opponents - those who are outstanding - and listen to them. It is 
possible that they raise interesting points and that these points are 
valuable for the development of their work. Even if they raise no 
important point, officials can convince them. This is harmony. This is 
uniting hearts and feelings, and - consequently - actions. In my 
opinion, they should listen to one another and hold discussions. 
Now officials may say that they have only two, three months left [to 
reach the final agreement]. Well, what happens if it becomes four 
months? What is wrong with this? It should be noted that at one stage, 
the other side delayed the negotiations for seven months. So, what 
happens if some time is taken to achieve harmony and unanimity and to 
exchange opinions? You can take time to do so. And the final decisions 
can be delayed. Nothing will happen. This is another point. 
The next point is that these ongoing negotiations - part of which is 
conducted with the Americans - are only related to nuclear matters. They
 are only related to these matters. In the present time, we have no 
negotiations with America on any other matter. There is no other matter.
 Everyone should know this. We do not negotiate with the Americans on 
regional issues, different domestic issues and international issues. 
Today, the only matter for negotiation is the nuclear matter. This will 
become an experience for us. If the other side stops its usual 
obstinacy, this will be an experience for us and we will find out that 
we can negotiate with it over other matters as well. But if we see that 
they continue to behave in the same obstinate and deviant way, well, our
 previous experience will naturally be strengthened. 
Besides, the opposite side is not comprised of the whole world. This 
should also receive attention. Sometimes one hears that - I have 
expressed my dissatisfaction with this - some friends say, "the global 
community". It is they that refer to themselves as the global community.
 We are not confronted with the global community. We are only confronted
 with America and three European countries. That is all. It is only 
America and three European countries that show obstinacy, break their 
promises and behave in a vicious way towards the people of Iran on this 
matter. No one else is confronting us. Two, three years ago, the 
high-ranking officials of more than 150 countries came to Tehran. About 
50 heads of countries participated in the summit of the Non-Aligned 
Movement in Tehran. This happened two, three years ago. It did not 
happen 100 years ago. It happened in the recent years. This is the 
global community. Why should we say, "The global community should trust 
us"? Where is the global community? The global community trusts us 
completely. Even in these countries [America and the three European 
countries], many people do not believe in their government. This is the 
next point.
The last point on this matter is about my demands. I have a number of
 demands which I made to officials and I insist on them. One is that 
officials should know our current nuclear achievements are very 
valuable. They should know this. They should not look at them as things 
of little value. They are very valuable. The nuclear industry is a 
necessity for any country. If some so-called intellectuals pick up their
 pens and write, "What do we need the nuclear industry for?" this is 
deception. This looks likes the things which used to be said during the 
time of Qajar dynasty. When oil was just discovered and the English had 
come to take it, Qajar officials said, "What do we want this smelly and 
stinking substance for? Let them take it". The statements that these 
so-called intellectuals say are like this. The nuclear industry is a 
necessity for any country. It is necessary for supplying energy, for 
preparing drugs, for turning seawater into drinking water and for 
fulfilling many other needs in the area of agriculture and other areas. 
The nuclear industry is an advanced industry in the world. It is an 
important industry. And it was achieved by our own experts. This was an 
explosion of the inner capacities and talents of our own experts. Now, 
such and such a backward country says that if Iran is supposed to have 
enrichment, I want enrichment as well. Well, you can go and engage in 
enrichment if you know how to do so [audience laughs]. We did not learn 
enrichment from anyone. It was with our own domestic talent that we 
managed to do it. If your people have this talent, you can go and engage
 in enrichment.
These are childish excuses that some countries make. Enrichment and 
the other achievements that have been made in the nuclear area are a 
very important accomplishment. It is not a minor achievement. And these 
are only our initial steps in this industry. This industry should be 
worked on so that it makes progress. Now a few criminal countries which 
have either used nuclear bombs against other nations or tested them - 
such as America and France - are telling us what to do. Ten, twelve 
years ago, France conducted three nuclear tests - in a row - in the 
ocean. These tests are destructive and they destroy the marine 
environment. They conducted three dangerous tests. And there was little 
criticism over this matter in the world and later on, they shut mouths 
and it was over. 
This is while we are not after nuclear tests. We are not after 
nuclear weapons. And this is not because they are telling us not to 
pursue these things. Rather, we do not want these things for the sake of
 ourselves and our religion and because reason is telling us not to do 
so. Both shar'i and aqli [related to logic and reason] fatwas dictate 
that we do not pursue them. Our aqli fatwa is that we do not need a 
nuclear weapon either in the present time or in the future. A nuclear 
weapon is a source of trouble for a country like ours - I do not want to
 expand on this matter. So, nuclear achievements are very important and 
pursuing this industry and industrializing the country is a very 
important task. This should receive attention.
The next demand that we made to officials was that we told them not 
to trust the other side. Fortunately, one of the honorable officials 
recently said in an open and direct way that he does not trust the other
 side at all. This is a very good thing. I said that they should not 
trust the other side, that they should not be deceived by its smile and 
that they should not trust the promise - not the actions - that it 
makes. This is because when they have crossed the bridge, they will turn
 around and make you a laughing stock. They are this shameless. Now that
 an initial agreement, in the form of a note and proclamation, has been 
published and that they have managed to move forward this much - nothing
 has been done yet and even when the two sides say that no binding 
agreement has been made yet - the American president appears on TV, with
 what gestures and show!
Another issue that we discussed with officials and that we would like
 to discuss with the people now is that in the details of the 
negotiations - the next months are very important - sanctions have to be
 lifted completely and at once. One side says that sanctions will be 
lifted in six months. Another says that it may take one year for the 
sanctions to be lifted. Another says that it make take even more than a 
year. These are their usual games. They are not worthy of attention and 
we do not accept them at all. If Allah the Exalted has ordained that an 
agreement is to be made, sanctions have to be completely lifted on the 
day of the final agreement. This has to happen. If lifting sanctions is 
supposed to depend on another new process, why did we negotiate with 
them in the first place? What was the purpose of sitting at the 
negotiating table and wrangling with them? The purpose was to lift the 
sanctions. If they want to set new terms for lifting sanctions, this is 
not acceptable at all.
Another point that we discussed with the officials and that we would 
like to discuss with you is that they are not at all allowed to 
penetrate the security and defense areas of the country with the excuse 
of supervision. This should not happen at all. The military officials of
 the country are not at all allowed to let foreigners enter the security
 and defense areas of the country with the excuse of exercising 
supervision, carrying out investigations and other such excuses. Also 
they are not allowed to hamper the defense development of the country. 
The defense development and capability of the country is the firm fist 
of the people in the military arena and therefore, it should remain firm
 and become even firmer. Another issue that we do not negotiate over is 
the support that we offer to our resistant brothers in different 
countries. Such issues should not be touched at all in the process of 
negotiations. 
Another warning is that no unusual methods- which treats the Islamic 
Republic in a special way in terms of supervision- is acceptable. The 
same usual methods that are used in the world should be used in our 
country and nothing more.
The last point in this regard is that scientific and technical 
development in the nuclear area should not be stopped at all. 
Development - technical development - should continue. Officials may 
deem it necessary to accept a few limitations. We have no objections in 
this regard. They can accept a few limitations, but technical 
development should definitely continue and it should move forward with 
complete strength and power. 
These are what we wanted to say to our officials. We have said these 
points to them in private meetings as well. During the past one and a 
half years, I have pointed out these issues to the honorable President. I
 have also discussed them with the head of the negotiating team - the 
honorable Minister of Foreign Affairs - on few occasions. These are what
 I wanted to say in this regard. Of course, it depends on them with what
 methods they want to fulfill these demands. They can go and find good 
negotiation methods. They can benefit from well-informed and trustworthy
 personalities and the opinions of critics. Then, they can do what is 
necessary. This was related to the nuclear matter. 
As for the issue of Yemen, the Saudis have established a bad 
tradition in the region. Of course, they have made a mistake. Today, 
what the government of Saudi Arabia is doing in Yemen is exactly the 
same thing that the Zionists are doing in Gaza. This issue has two 
aspects: one is that it is a genocidal crime. It is a crime that can be 
pursued by international authorities. They kill children and destroy 
houses, infrastructure and national sources of wealth. Well, this is a 
big crime. This is one aspect of the issue. 
The other aspect is that the Saudis will suffer a loss on this 
matter. They will suffer a loss and they will not achieve any victory. 
There is a very clear reason for this. The reason is that the military 
capabilities of the Zionists are several times more than these so-and-so
 Saudis. The Zionists are much stronger than them. The Zionists too had 
military capabilities. And the camp against them was a small strip of 
land, namely Gaza. But the camp against the Saudis is a country which is
 comprised of tens of millions of people. It is a people and a vast 
country that has stood up against the Saudis. If the Zionists can 
achieve victory in Gaza, the Saudis too will achieve victory in Yemen. 
Of course, even if the Zionists achieved victory, the chances for the 
Saudis to achieve victory in Yemen would be zero. In the present time, 
their chances are less than zero. So, they will definitely receive a 
blow. Without a doubt, their noses will be rubbed in dirt. 
We have many differences with the Saudis on different political 
issues. But we always said that the Saudis behave with tact and gravity 
in their foreign affairs. But they have lost this tact and gravity. A 
few inexperienced youth have taken the affairs of that country in their 
hands and they prefer savagery to tact and maintaining appearances. This
 will be to their disadvantage. I warn the Saudis. Stop these criminal 
actions are commiting in Yemen. This is not acceptable in the region. 
Of course, America defends and supports them. This is in America's 
nature. They support the oppressive side on all matters in the world. 
They advocate for the bad person instead of advocating for the 
oppressed. This is in their nature. They are acting in the same way on 
the issue of Yemen, but they will receive a blow and they will be 
defeated. Now, they are creating uproar by saying that Iran has 
interfered in the affairs of Yemen. Of course, this is interference! 
Just because we are saying a few words about this issue, we are 
interfering! But the fact that their criminal warplanes have created an 
insecure environment for Yemen is not interference. They are finding 
silly excuses for their own interference. These excuses are not 
acceptable in terms of international logic. Neither the people nor God 
will accept such excuses. So, this is what they need to do: they should 
stop committing such crimes and creating such disasters as soon as 
possible. 
The people of Yemen are a great, ancient and historic people. They 
have a millennia-long history. These people have the capacity and 
capability to decide the fate of their own government. Of course, some 
people have tried to bring about a power vacuum and to create uproar. 
They want to create the same events that have unfortunately taken place 
in Libya - today, there is a very bad and regrettable situation in 
Libya. But fortunately, they failed to do so. The religious and 
enthusiastic youth of Yemen who believe in the bright path of the 
Commander of the Faithful (peace and greetings be upon him) managed to 
stand up against them. Shia, Sunni, Shafi'i, Zaidi, Hanafi and all types
 have stood up against the enemy's invasion and by Allah's favor, they 
will achieve victory. Victory belongs to the people. 
Dear God, help our brothers - wherever they are in the world - to 
achieve victory. Dear God, humiliate and defeat the enemies of Islam and
 the enemies of Muslim peoples wherever they are in the world. Dear God,
 familiarize us with our responsibilities. Dear God, enable us to carry 
out our responsibilities. Associate the immaculate soul of our 
magnanimous Imam (r.a.) with his saints. Associate the pure souls of 
martyrs with the immaculate soul of Hazrat Siddiqat at-Tahirah (God's 
greetings be upon her).
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
