
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech at the Holy Shrine of Imam Ridha (a.s.)"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and 
greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa 
Muhammad and upon his immaculate, pure, chosen, infallible and honorable
 household and upon those who guide the guided, especially the one 
remaining with Allah on earth. Allah, send Your greetings to Fatima, the
 daughter of Your Prophet, the wife of Your representative and the 
mother of two sons - Hassan and Hussein who are the masters of the youth
 of paradise. She is pure, infallible, modest, pious, immaculate and 
flawless. She is the mistress of all women in paradise. 
Allah, bestow as many blessings upon Your representative - Ali ibn 
Musa - as Your knowledge encompasses. Bestow Your blessing upon him, one
 that is as permanent as Your greatness and Your magnificence. Allah, 
send as many greetings to Your representative - Ali ibn Musa ar-Ridha - 
as Your knowledge encompasses. Send Your greeting to him, one that is as
 permanent as Your glory, Your greatness and Your magnificence.
I thank Allah the Exalted for giving me the opportunity once more and
 one more year to meet with you dear brothers and sisters, pilgrims and 
citizens of Razavi Mashhad at the holy shrine of Hazrat Ab-al-Hassan 
ar-Ridha (peace and greetings be upon him).
Clever Muslim Iranians changed the ancient Norouz according to their 
own beliefs and interests. They preserved the Norouz form and changed 
its content. The ancient Norouz was the Norouz of kings. It was merely 
an opportunity for dictatorial kings and rulers. They used it as an 
opportunity to show off their superficial glory and magnificence to 
other nations and to receive gifts from them. Even during the time of 
the Umayyad and Abbasid Caliphates - when Norouz entered into their 
reign - the same kingly behavior was witnessed. But Muslim Iranians 
changed this order and mold to their own advantage.
Although this change was not made at once, after the passage of many 
centuries, you can see that Norouz has become an opportunity and a tool 
for a heartfelt relationship between the people and the Origin of Glory 
and Dignity - that is to say, Allah the Exalted. In the Iranian form of 
Norouz, the essence of Norouz is the people. They behave in a kind and 
affectionate way towards one another on the occasion of Norouz. They 
congratulate one another and exchange gifts. So, today after the passage
 of many years and centuries, that ancient and kingly tradition and 
ceremony does not exist anymore.
During Norouz and the arrival of the new year, the most crowded and 
populated places in our vast country are the holy shrines of the Imams 
(a.s.) and their children (God's greetings be upon them). In the middle 
of last night, hundreds of thousands of believers showed their presence 
at this holy shrine. They paid attention to the Center of Magnificence 
and Power, they spoke to their God and asked the Changer of Conditions 
to change their conditions to the best of conditions and they performed a
 religious ceremony. Therefore, the kind of Norouz that we enjoy today 
is not like the ancient form. It is an Iranian Norouz. It belongs to a 
Muslim people who have managed to find a valuable resource out of this 
ancient ceremony and to move towards their goals.
I hope that Allah the Exalted will help the dear people of Iran to 
employ these clever Islamic innovations in all other areas and matters. 
This year, Norouz has coincided with the martyrdom anniversary of the 
great mistress of the world of Islam - Hazrat Fatima Zahra (s.a.). 
Without a doubt, the Norouz ceremony should not be incompatible with 
respect towards the name and memory of that great personality- and this 
will definitely be the case. Today, I have certain points in mind to 
discuss with you dear brothers and sisters - who are present in this 
glorious gathering - and with all the people of Iran.
I would like to begin the discussion with a Quranic lesson. Allah the
 Exalted has laid down a condition for those whom He has promised to 
help: "And most surely Allah is well able to assist them... They are 
those who, if We establish them in the land, establish regular prayer 
and give regular charity, enjoin to do good and forbid evil. With Allah 
rests the end of all affairs" [The Holy Quran, 22: 39-41].
In this holy ayah, Allah the Exalted has laid down four conditions 
and criteria for those believers whom He offers power and whom He saves 
from cruel rulers. He has said, "And most surely Allah is well able to 
assist them". Allah the Exalted is able to help such people and He will 
definitely do so. These four conditions are establishing daily prayers, 
paying zakat, enjoining to do good and forbidding evil.
Each of these four characteristics and conditions has an individual 
and personal as well as a social aspect to them. So many secrets and 
mysteries are hidden in the truth of daily prayers. It is the miraj of 
all believers. "The sacrificial offering of the pious" [speaking in 
Arabic]. It is a tool for achieving happiness and salvation and it is 
more important than all other religious acts. But daily prayers has a 
social aspect as well. The social aspect of daily prayers is that it 
helps each and every Muslim to be in touch with a single and unified 
center. During daily prayers, all Muslims in all areas of the world of 
Islam connect their hearts with a unified center. This connection is a 
social issue, one that can build systems and shape the geometry of the 
Islamic government.
Zakat too has an individual - it teaches us to give away what we love
 and this is an important experience and test in its own right - and a 
social aspect. According to its Quranic use, zakat means all kinds of 
alms including the common use of the term in the holy ayah, "Take alms 
out of their property" [The Holy Quran, 9: 103]. Zakat means all kinds 
of monetary alms. But it has a social aspect as well. The social aspect 
of zakat is that those individuals who enjoy material welfare in the 
Islamic environment and government, consider themselves to be 
responsible. They consider themselves to be debtors, not creditors. They
 believe that they are in debt to the Islamic government, to the poor 
and the weak, and to God. According to this outlook, zakat is a 
condition and criterion with the capability to build systems.
And enjoining to do good and forbidding evil is, in fact, an 
infrastructure for all social movements of Islam: "It establishes all 
obligations" [al-Kafi, Volume 5, page 56]. Enjoining to do good means 
that all believers - wherever they live in the world - have a 
responsibility to draw society towards good and good deeds. Forbidding 
evil means that they should make everyone move away from all kinds of 
evil and malevolence. Each of these four criteria is in some way the 
manifestation of the Islamic government's geometry and structure.
I should add in parentheses that this important meaning of enjoining 
to do good and forbidding evil should not be confined to matters of 
secondary importance. Some people think that enjoining to do good and 
forbidding evil is confined to offering advice to a man or woman who 
does not observe a minor religious rule. Of course, enjoining to do good
 and forbidding evil includes such cases, but they are not the most 
important ones. The most important example of enjoining to do good and 
forbidding evil is enjoining to do the greatest goods and forbidding the
 greatest evils. 
We have no good which is more important than creating and preserving 
the Islamic government. Anyone who makes effort on this path is 
enjoining to do good. Preserving the dignity and honor of the people of 
Iran is the greatest good. These are kinds of good: improving the 
culture, ensuring the moral health of society and family, increasing the
 population, educating a young and prepared generation for developing 
the country, improving the economy and national production, promoting 
Islamic ethics at a public level, developing science and technology, 
administering judicial and economic justice and making efforts for the 
power of the people of Iran and more important than that, the power and 
unity of the Islamic Ummah. These are the most important kinds of good 
and everyone is responsible on this path.
And the various forms of evil stand at the opposite end of these 
things. Moral decadence is an evil. Helping the enemies of Islam is an 
evil. Weakening Islamic government and Islamic culture is an evil. The 
same is true of weakening science, technology and the economy of 
society. These evils should be forbidden. God is the first who enjoins 
to do good. He says, "Surely Allah enjoins the doing of justice and the 
doing of good and the giving to the kindred, and He forbids indecency, 
evil and rebellion. He admonishes you that you may be mindful" [The Holy
 Quran, 16: 90]. God enjoins to do good and forbids evils and it is 
clear what goods and evils are.
The Holy Prophet of Islam (God's greetings be upon him and his 
household) was the best at enjoining to do good and forbidding evil. 
There is a holy ayah which says, "He commands them what is just and 
forbids them what is evil" [The Holy Quran, 7: 157].
The Imams (a.s.) were also the greatest people in this regard. We 
read in the ziyarat: "I testify that you established daily prayers, paid
 zakat, enjoined to do good and forbade evil" [al-Kafi, Volume 5, page 
570]. Male and female believers in all areas of the world of Islam 
enjoin to do good and forbid evil: "The believers, men and women, are 
protectors one of another. They enjoin what is just, and forbid what is 
evil. They observe regular prayers and practice regular charity" [The 
Holy Quran, 9: 71]. These are four main bases for building a system, 
each of which has certain branches. The Islamic government is dependent 
on establishing daily prayers, paying zakat, enjoining to do good and 
forbidding evil. This means a social and heartfelt solidarity between 
the masses of the people in the Islamic government. 
I want to draw a conclusion from these introductory statements. This 
conclusion is related to the slogan of the year that I discussed with 
our dear people in last night's speech - it was delivered around 
midnight. In our society and in our dear and vast country, Islam wants 
all of us - no matter what social positions and viewpoints we have - to 
achieve solidarity and synergy and to help one another. As a single 
unit, everyone should help and join hands with the current 
administration, particularly when the country is faced with important 
challenges and matters. Later on, I will raise a few points in this 
regard.
Today, the responsibility of all the people is to support the 
officials of the country - particularly executive officials. This is not
 particular to the current administration. All administrations should 
receive the people's support. The same is true of the administrations 
which will hold office in the future. Primarily, this is because the 
main concern of all administrations is to solve the people's problems. 
Of course, it is possible that different administrations have different 
capabilities and that not all of them have the same performance. 
Secondly, they have different viewpoints, but the goal of all of them is
 to solve the problems of the people within the scope of their 
capabilities.
Any administration which is elected on the basis of the Constitution 
is a legal and legitimate administration. It does not matter how many 
votes this or that president receives from voters. The number of votes 
is related to the issue of popularity, but it is not related to 
legitimacy and legality. Anyone who is elected with the votes of the 
majority of the people - no matter how many votes they win and on the 
basis of the Constitution- is a legitimate president. Their 
administration is legitimate as well and the people should help them as 
much as they can. Of course, this relationship is mutual.
Of course, any administration has certain critics. The same is true 
of the current administration and all former administrations. So far, so
 good. There are some people who do not agree with some of the methods, 
statements and policies of the current administration. These are critics
 and they make certain criticisms. There is nothing wrong with this, but
 criticism should be made within a reasonable framework. 
I myself have made certain criticisms against different 
administrations and I have always expressed them. I never avoided 
expressing my criticisms whenever I felt that there is something wrong. 
However, we expressed them at the right time and in an appropriate way. 
We either sent messages to executive officials or we pointed out their 
mistakes to them in their presence. There is nothing wrong with making 
criticisms, but these criticisms should be made in a way that the people
 do not lose their trust in the current officials. Criticism should not 
lead to public distrust of officials. It should be made without 
insulting and showing anger. Everyone should look at the relationship 
between the people and the administration in a brotherly and Islamic 
way. Everyone should behave towards the administration by using this 
method.
Of course, this is a mutual relationship. I advise the people to 
behave in a kind, helpful and supportive way towards the administration.
 Similarly, I advise the officials in the three branches of government 
to behave in an appropriate ways towards their critics and those who 
level certain criticisms at them. They should not humiliate and insult 
them. The humiliation of opponents on the part of officials is against 
wisdom and acumen. I do not invite our dear people to show indifference 
and to avoid supervision. On the contrary, I advise them to pay 
attention to the fundamental matters of the country. However, I stress 
that no one should show destructive behavior. The people should not 
behave in a destructive way towards officials and officials should not 
show this behavior to their critics either. There should be no 
humiliation and insult.
Some people may have concerns on a certain matter. Being concerned 
and anxious is not a crime. The people can really have concerns about an
 important and sensitive matter of the country. There is nothing wrong 
with this, but it should not mean making accusations and ignoring 
efforts and services. On the other hand, the administration and its 
supporters should not insult those who express their concerns and 
anxieties. 
I want to say openly to our dear people - I have said it before - 
that I have supported all administrations since I accepted this 
responsibility. I support this administration as well and I will 
criticize it whenever it is necessary. However, I will not sign a blank 
check for any administration. I look at their performance and I judge 
them according to that. By Allah's favor and grace, I will behave 
towards them according to their performance. This was the first point 
which was an explanation of the slogan of the year - "Harmony and 
Unanimity Between the Administration and the People". They should enjoy 
harmony and unanimity, they should cooperate with one another and they 
should move towards solving problems together.
As I said, this cooperation becomes significant when there are great 
opportunities and challenges. The present time is one of these times. 
Today, there are both great opportunities and great challenges ahead of 
us. By Allah's favor, we should face and overcome challenges with the 
help of opportunities. Well, today, we have great opportunities. One of 
the greatest opportunities is related to competent and innovative human 
resources. Thankfully, there are competent, mostly young, innovative and
 confident forces in our country.
One of our greatest opportunities is the support that our people and 
our youth show to the Islamic government, its goals and the goals of our
 magnanimous Imam (r.a.). I want to draw the attention of you dear 
brothers and sisters to the fact that the participants in the Quds Day 
or the 22nd of Bahman rallies are mostly youth. These youth are the same
 youth who are being bombarded day and night by audio-visual media and 
the internet. There is great commotion in the virtual world. In the 
world of audio-visual media, there are hundreds or perhaps thousands of 
networks which are bombarding the minds of our youth.
Some of them try to make youth turn their backs on religion. Some try
 to discourage them from the Islamic government. Some try to encourage 
them to create discord. Some try to use them at the service of their own
 vicious goals and some try to drag them towards decadence and idleness.
 This bombardment is constantly targeting our youth and it is conducted 
by audio-visual media and the internet. Despite these attempts, you can 
witness that tens of millions of our youth participate in the 22nd of 
Bahman rallies to chant slogans and to show their feelings and respect 
towards Imam (r.a.), Islam and the Islamic Republic. This is not a minor
 thing. Rather, it is a great opportunity.
Another opportunity is the scientific achievements that have been 
made during the time of sanctions. Sometimes powers, governments, 
different sources of wealth and international resources come to a 
people's help and sometimes, they shut all doors to them. Nevertheless 
these people accomplish great feats in different areas. Today, you can 
witness such feats whose importance should not be played down. Phase 12 
of South Pars - which was inaugurated by the President a few days ago - 
is a very great and complex industrial project which can stimulate the 
economic growth of the country and develop the products of the public 
effort of the country in a tangible way. We have many such achievements.
As you witnessed, during the military exercise of our Armed Forces, 
certain equipment was introduced which astonished the enemies. And they 
expressed their astonishment. We do not guess that they are astonished. 
They themselves acknowledged that they were astonished. Well, all these 
feats were accomplished while we were under sanctions. This is not a 
minor achievement. Rather, it is a great opportunity. Our innovative 
youth made these achievements during years when we were under 
consecutive sanctions - that is to say, during the years 1389, 1390, 
1391, 1392 when these so-called crippling sanctions cast their shadow 
over our country. This is a very great opportunity for the country.
Therefore, sanctions are an opportunity as well. Later on, I will 
briefly explain that sanctions are an opportunity for the people of Iran
 in one sense. Although they have caused some difficulties, they can be 
an opportunity. Later on, I will expand on this matter. We have certain 
challenges as well. Later on, I will refer to them as well.
Today, one of the greatest and most important challenges of the 
country is the issue of the national economy. The most important 
challenge is the economy. The legitimate expectation of our people is to
 enjoy a thriving economy and to benefit from public welfare. They 
expect to see the liberation of underprivileged classes from 
unacceptable economic conditions and from problems. These are the 
expectations of our people and they are legitimate. The economy of the 
country needs a serious move and a great feat - I will refer to the 
characteristics of this economy. It is several years now that I have 
been speaking about the economy. A few years ago in the same meeting, I 
predicted that the enemies would focus on our economy. Officials should 
think about this. They should prepare themselves and tighten their belts
 for confronting the hostile policies of the enemies who have focused 
their efforts on the economy in the present time. Later on, I will raise
 certain points about the economy.
Today, we are halfway through the decade of justice and progress. We 
specified the decade as the decade of justice and progress. We are 
halfway through it. The 20-year strategic plan has reached its half-way 
point. Ten years of the 20-year strategic plan have passed and the other
 10 years lie ahead of us. These are important matters. If we pay 
attention to these realities, the sensitivity of economic issues 
increases.
Our enemies openly say that their purpose of exerting economic 
pressures is political. Their purpose is to pit the people of Iran 
against the Islamic Republic [the audience shouts "Death to America!"]. 
You are right: "Death to America". This is because America is the main 
element in exerting these pressures. They themselves insist on focusing 
their efforts on the economy of our dear people. What is their purpose 
of doing so? Their purpose is to pit the people against the system. They
 explicitly say that they want to exert economic pressures on the people
 of Iran so that they are forced to make complaints against the 
administration and the Islamic Republic because of experiencing 
difficult conditions. They say this openly. 
Of course, they falsely claim that they support the people of Iran. 
These lies cannot be believed. We should not believe the lies that the 
enemy says. Their goal is a political one. They want to destroy - 
through our people - the security that exists in our country in the 
present time. This security is unique in West Asia - where we are 
located. Thankfully, no country to the east, west, north and south of 
Iran enjoys the security that dominates our country and our people. But 
they want to make the people themselves destroy it. They want to 
encourage them to make complaints against the Islamic Republic. 
They are provoking our people. They are planning and working on it. 
This is what they are pursuing in a serious way. Well, these are 
important circumstances. This is a great challenge. When such a 
challenge exists in the country, all forces should join hands, work 
together and adopt a serious outlook towards the issue of the economy.
I would like to raise a few points about the issue of the economy. 
The first point is that today, the arena of the economy is the arena of 
battle and war - of a particular kind - because of the hostile polices 
of America. In this arena of battle, anyone who can make efforts to the 
advantage of the country has made jihad. Today, anyone who can help the 
economy of the country has made a jihadi move. This is a jihad, of 
course one that has its own tools and methods. Everyone should make this
 jihad with their own methods and weapons. This is the first point.
The second point is that there are two fundamental outlooks towards 
the economy of our country. I seriously request that experts, youth and 
the masses of our dear people pay attention that there are two outlooks 
towards economic development and progress. One outlook says that we 
should make economic progress with the help of domestic capacities and 
domestic forces. There are many capacities in the country which are 
either untapped or not used in the proper way. We should utilize these 
capacities. This means developing the economy from the inside. This is 
an economy which obtains its resources and ingredients from inside the 
country, from the capacities of the country and from the capabilities of
 the people. This is one outlook which says that in order to achieve 
economic progress, we should look at and utilize domestic resources, 
talents and capacities. This is how the economy will grow. This is one 
outlook. 
The second outlook towards the economy of the country relies on 
foreigners for economic progress. It says that we should change our 
foreign policy so that the economy will progress. It says that we should
 get along with such and such an arrogant government and that we should 
tolerate the imposition of arrogant powers in different areas and on 
different matters so that the economy will develop. This is the second 
outlook. Today, the conditions of the country have shown us that the 
second outlook is completely wrong, infertile and useless.
The sanctions that are imposed on the people of Iran in the present 
time are a firm and clear proof that the second outlook is wrong. When 
you pin your hopes on foreign powers so that they come and develop your 
economy and when you develop it by giving in to them, they will not be 
satisfied easily. When you rely on the outside, you will be faced with 
the issue of reduction in the price of oil. All of a sudden, arrogant 
powers and their regional cohorts come to the conclusion that they 
should halve the price of oil or reduce it even more. You will be faced 
with such a problem. When we pin our hopes on the outside, this is what 
will happen. But when you look at the inside, this will not be the case.
 Today, foreigners and the heads of arrogant powers want to strengthen 
the second outlook in our people.
I saw the message that the American president addressed to the people
 of Iran on the occasion of Norouz. In this message, he says that we 
should accept what they say. In fact, the essence of what he says is 
that we should accept what they dictate to us so that there will be job 
opportunities in our country, so that capital will flow in Iran and so 
that economic activities will flourish. This is the same as the second 
outlook. This outlook is one that will never produce results. 
We should look at the inside because domestic capacities are many. 
The economy of resistance that we introduced and that was welcomed by 
all experts and economic specialists - I did not see even one single 
economic and social expert who rejects the economy of resistance - 
focuses on the same thing. It focuses on the domestic resources of the 
country. When they do not allow you to water your land from the outside,
 you have to dig a well in your own land to water it on your own so that
 you will not have to beg that stingy neighbor. We should rely on 
ourselves and we should be able to move tasks forward on our own. This 
is the second point.
The third point is that we cannot move forward without defining our 
goals. This is possible neither in the area of the economy nor in any 
other area. We should define goals. If executive officials move forward 
without defining goals, things will be done in a habitual way and there 
will be no results. There should be clear and well-defined goals and the
 administration should gather all organizations and forces in order to 
achieve them. In my opinion, the goal of the economy in this year and in
 the coming years should be to invest in domestic production. Everyone 
should focus all their efforts on strengthening domestic production. All
 those officials who are working in the area of the economy and all the 
people should be asked to help domestic production.
There are certain ways for doing so, some of which I referred to. One
 of the most necessary tasks is to support small and middle-sized 
production companies. Another task is to strengthen the activities of 
knowledge-based companies. The reason why we highlight science and 
technology is not only that we want to achieve a higher scientific rank.
 The progress of science and technology helps the progress of the 
economy. Knowledge-based companies can help the national economy. 
Another necessary task is to reduce the sale of our crude products.
Recently, I complained about the dependence of our economy on oil. I 
brought this issue up in one of my speeches. This issue is related to 
what I am saying. We should do something to reduce or stop the sale of 
crude oil gradually. We should bring about value added. Banks can play a
 role in this regard. They can both play a constructive or destructive 
role. Other fundamental tasks are facilitating investment, reducing the 
imports of consumer goods and combating smuggling. Executive officials 
can carry out different tasks. These are some of the tasks that they can
 carry out.
Of course, all these tasks are difficult. It is easy to say such 
things, but they are very difficult in practice. However, executive 
officials should definitely carry out these difficult tasks because the 
issue is very important. The people can play a role as well. Those 
people who have the capability to invest should focus their investment 
on production. They should invest in production. Consumers too - 
actually, all our people are consumers - should consume domestic 
products. I have stressed this issue many times, but I would like to 
stress it today as well. Everyone should try to consume domestic 
products. Everyone should support Iranian workers and help production 
companies and factories by using their products. 
Another issue is avoiding extravagance. Those who lead an extravagant
 lifestyle should know that leading an extravagant, lavish and wasteful 
life - which has been vehemently condemned in Islam - determines the 
fate of the national economy. If we avoid extravagance and wastefulness 
in our personal lives - for example, the way we use water, bread and the
 way we spend in formal occasions such as aqd, wedding and other such 
ceremonies - this will help the national economy. Merchants and those 
people who are involved in trade outside the country can play a role as 
well. Their role is to act properly and honestly so that the dignity of 
the people of Iran is preserved. This is the third point.
The fourth point about the economy is that sanctions are the only 
tool left for the enemy. They should know this. The only tool that the 
enemy uses to confront the people of Iran is imposing sanctions. If we 
act properly and wisely, sanctions can be counteracted. As I said, 
establishing production and industrial companies - fortunately today, 
governmental organizations are establishing these companies - is a task 
that can counteract sanctions. An example is the Phase 12 of South Pars -
 which I referred to earlier - military achievements, science and 
technology parks and other such tasks. This can minimize and then 
completely counter the effect of sanctions.
Sanctions have been the most difficult problem but they have also 
brought about certain blessings for us. Sanctions showed us that we 
should rely on ourselves. They proved to us that we can benefit from our
 domestic forces. If executive officials, all the people and economic 
activists in particular show diligence and work hard and if national 
media offer their assistance - I will address this issue later on - we 
will see that sanctions will not be able to prevent the people of Iran 
from making progress.
Now, I would like to raise a point about the nuclear issue. Of 
course, there are other points about economic matters, but I do not want
 to prolong this discussion. I would like to say a few things about 
nuclear issues. First, our enemies - who form the opposite front against
 the people of Iran and who are mostly American - are moving forward 
with acumen and by formulating clever policies. We are completely aware 
of this. They know what they are doing. They need the nuclear 
negotiations. America needs the nuclear negotiations. The differences 
that exist among the Americans - between senators and executive 
officials - does not mean that they do not need the negotiations. This 
is not the case. The opposite side to the U.S. administration does not 
like the bdnefits that exist in these negotiations to be registered in 
the name of its rival - the Democratic Party. They are after this. So, 
they need these negotiations and they consider it to be absolutely 
necessary although they claim that they do not need it.
Unfortunately in the Norouz message that the American president 
delivered, there were dishonest statements. Despite the fact that they 
claim to be the friends of the people of Iran, we can clearly see that 
these statements are not honest. One of the statements that he made was 
that there are some people in Iran who do not want the nuclear issue to 
be resolved in a diplomatic way. This is what he said. He said that 
there are some people in Iran who do not want the nuclear issue to be 
resolved through diplomacy. This is a lie. There is no one in Iran who 
does not want the nuclear issue to be resolved through negotiations. 
What the people of Iran do not want is to accept America's imposition 
and bullying. This is what they do not want. What the people of Iran 
resist is accepting the other side's bullying. The other side says that 
we should negotiate with it and accept whatever it says. This is what it
 says. The people of Iran have stood up against this bullying. Neither 
our officials, nor our negotiating team, nor the people of Iran - who 
have stood behind them - will accept this. 
The second point about our ongoing negotiations with European 
governments and America on the nuclear issue is that we only negotiate 
with America on the nuclear issue, not on any other issue. Everyone 
should know this. We do not negotiate with America on regional issues. 
America's goals in the region are the exact opposite of our goals. We 
want security and peace in the region. We want the rule of peoples over 
their countries. America's policy in the region is to create insecurity.
 Take a look at Egypt, Libya and Syria. Arrogant governments - headed by
 America - have begun a counterattack against Islamic Awakening which 
has been created by nations. This counterattack is continuing in the 
present time and it is gradually creating a disastrous situation for 
nations. This is their goal which is the exact opposite of ours. We do 
not at all negotiate with America neither on regional issues, nor on 
domestic issues or nor on the issue of weapons. Our negotiations with 
the Americans are confined to the nuclear issue and on how we can reach 
an agreement through diplomacy.
The third point is about what the Americans say. They repeatedly say 
that they will sign an agreement with Iran and that they will lift 
sanctions only if the Iranians adhere to it. This is a wrong and 
unacceptable statement and we do not agree with it. Lifting sanctions is
 one of the terms of the negotiations, not a result of it. Those who are
 involved in the negotiations clearly understand the difference between 
these two. They say, "We will sign an agreement first. Then, we look at 
their behavior and lift sanctions if they adhere to it". This is an 
American trick. We do not agree with this. As our officials and 
honorable President explicitly said, lifting sanctions should be done 
without any delay and during the reaching of an agreement. Lifting 
sanctions is one of the terms of the agreement, not a result of it.
There is another point. The Americans keep repeating that Iran should
 not be able to renege on the decisions that it makes and the terms that
 it agrees with. We do not agree with this either. If the other side 
wants to re-impose sanctions with any excuse, there is no reason that 
our negotiating team goes along with this and does something that they 
cannot cancel and revoke. We do not agree with this at all. Nuclear 
energy is a popular and domestic industry. It belongs to the people. Its
 science and technology belong to the people and they should move 
forward in it. Progress is the essence of any industry and technology.
They bring up the issue of a nuclear bomb. They themselves know that 
we are not after building a nuclear weapon, but they have used it as an 
excuse to exert pressures on the people of Iran. During the nuclear 
negotiations, we have fulfilled all international commitments. We have 
been committed to political-Islamic ethics in these negotiations and we 
did not break our promises. We did not speak in two different ways. We 
did not act in a hypocritical way. The Americans form the opposite camp 
against us. It is they who went back on their promises and acted in a 
hypocritical and deceitful way. Their behavior is a lesson for our 
people. It will be good for those intellectuals in the country who still
 do not know who the other side - America - is to take a look at these 
negotiations and see who they are dealing with. They should see what 
America is doing at a global level. 
The threats that they issue are of no use. They threaten to impose 
more sanctions or to make military moves against Iran. These are threats
 which do not intimidate the people of Iran. The people of Iran have 
stood firm and by Allah's favor, they will emerge victorious out of this
 great test. Of course, it is only divine blessings that can help our 
people to succeed on this path.
There are other important matters as well, but now is not the time to
 bring them up. Great tasks certainly fall upon the shoulders of the 
people and government of Iran. Achieving Islamic unity, helping weak 
nations and increasing the spiritual influence of Islam in the region - 
today, the flag of increasing the spiritual influence of Islam is in the
 hands of the people of Iran - are great tasks that we will carry out if
 Allah the Exalted bestows His blessings on our dear people. He will 
definitely do so in the shade of the prayers, determination and efforts 
of you youth.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

