
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Members of Assembly of Experts"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and 
greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Muhammad and upon his 
immaculate household, especially the one remaining with Allah on earth.
I would like to welcome the honorable gentlemen in this meeting. 
Besides the advantages that Mr. Yazdi, the esteemed Head of the Assembly
 of Experts, referred to, this meeting and congress has another 
advantage - of course, this advantage is for me - which is the fact that
 we have the opportunity to meet with you dear brothers and honorable 
gentlemen up close. This is an opportunity for us and I ask Allah the 
Exalted to bestow success on all you gentlemen and friends to carry out 
the responsibilities that fall on the shoulders of all of us in the best
 way possible.
First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Yazdi on his 
appointment as the chairman of this meeting. Well, his personality, 
experience and credentials are things which show the correctness of this
 election. I hope that by Allah's favor, he is prepared enough to carry 
out his responsibilities. Also, I would like to commemorate the memory 
of the late Mr. Mahdavi (may God bestow paradise on him). He was an 
outstanding individual and he was really an influential personality both
 before and after the victory of the Revolution. He was the 
manifestation of an active and knowledgeable clergyman. I hope that 
Allah the Exalted will bestow great rewards on him. I hope that He will 
bestow His mercy and blessings on the late Mr. Mahdavi.
According to the reports that have been delivered to me, your 
congress - during which organizational elections were held - was a very 
valuable congress. In fact, it was a model for other organizations to 
hold their elections the way you did. It was held in a very peaceful way
 and without the uproar and commotion that we usually witness in 
elections. Thankfully, you accomplished a great feat. 
Because of the conditions that dominate our region and the world, 
because of the challenge that exists between the Islamic Republic and 
some egotistic and arrogant governments on different issues - whether 
the nuclear issue or other issues - because of the economic discussions 
that have broken out in the country and the efforts that different 
officials are making, in different ways, for the sake of achieving 
Islamic goals and ensuring the interests of the people and finally 
because of the issue of Islamophobia which is one of the common 
phenomena in the arrogant and western world, I deemed it necessary to 
discuss this matter with you: what we understand from all Quranic 
teachings is that Islam commands Muslims to create a perfect and 
complete Islamic government. Islam wants the complete implementation of 
Islam. This is the general feeling that we get from these matters.
A religion that is satisfied with minimums is not acceptable from the
 point of view of Islam. In our religion, we have nothing like the 
religion of minimums. In many cases, the Holy Quran has blamed us for 
our satisfaction with some religious teachings minus others: "Those who 
have made Quran into shreds" [The Holy Quran, 15: 91] and "Those who 
wish to separate Allah from His messengers, saying: 'We believe in some 
but reject others'" [The Holy Quran, 4: 150]. The latter is related to 
hypocrites. It is not even enough to be satisfied with very important 
religious concepts such as administering justice. We cannot say, "We are
 after administering justice and we will do it. So, Islam has been fully
 implemented". This is not the case.
Of course, administering justice in society is really an important 
matter. There is a holy ayah which says, "We sent aforetime our 
messengers with clear signs and sent down with them the Book and the 
Balance, that men may stand forth in justice" [The Holy Quran, 57: 25]. 
According to this ayah, it seems that the purpose of sending messengers,
 books and divine teachings is to administer justice. However we 
interpret the sentence "that men may stand forth in justice", it shows 
the significance of administering justice. There are two interpretations
 of "That men may stand forth in justice". One is that it is the 
people's responsibility to administer justice in their living 
environments and another is that we [officials] should behave in a just 
way towards them. Even if we consider either of these two 
interpretations or other possible interpretations to be true, it shows 
the significance of administering justice in society.
But this does not mean that the Divine Lawgiver accepts our 
satisfaction with administering justice and focusing all our efforts on 
it. He does not accept it if we ignore other Islamic rules. There is a 
holy ayah which says, "Believers are those who, if We establish them in 
the land, establish regular prayer and give regular charity, enjoin the 
right and forbid wrong" [The Holy Quran, 22: 41]. God's expectation from
 the inhabitants of the earth is first to say prayers and second to 
"give regular charity, enjoin the right and forbid wrong".
It is not the case that if we pay attention to the administration of 
justice, we will have the right to ignore the significance of saying 
prayers, paying zakat, enjoining to do good and advising against evil. 
The holy ayah "For We assuredly sent among every people a messenger with
 the command, 'Serve Allah, and avoid taghut' [The Holy Quran, 16: 36] -
 this concept and command has been repeated several times in the Holy 
Quran - shows that Allah the Exalted sent prophets to promote 
monotheism, to prevent people from taghut and to worship God. This was 
the basis of their work.
There is another holy ayah from Sura ash-Shura which is related to 
God's command to Noah, Ibrahim, Musa and other prophets: "You should 
establish religion" [The Holy Quran, 42: 13]. What God wants is to 
establish religion, all of it: "And make no divisions therein. Hard to 
the unbelievers is that which you call them to. Allah chooses for 
Himself whom He pleases, and guides to Himself him who turns to Him, 
frequently" [The Holy Quran, 42: 13].
Allah calls for the establishment of the entire religion with all its
 parts and constituents. And the main opponents of this movement and 
outlook - that is to say, the establishment of religion with all its 
parts and constituents - are global bullies and arrogant individuals: 
"Hard to the unbelievers is that which you call them to". It is 
difficult for atheists to accept what you invite them to do.
Another example is the holy ayah from the beginning of the blessed 
Sura al-Ahzab: "Oh Prophet, Fear Allah and hearken not to the 
unbelievers and the hypocrites: verily Allah is full of Knowledge and 
Wisdom" [The Holy Quran, 33: 1]. It means that God is omniscient. He is 
full of knowledge about all parts of the universe and the way things 
work in it. God is also wise. He has determined our path in the world 
with wisdom and we have to follow it: "But follow that which comes to 
you by inspiration from your Lord for Allah is well acquainted with all 
that you do. And put your trust in Allah and enough is Allah as a 
disposer of affairs" [The Holy Quran, 33: 2-3]. There will be enmity 
against your movement. This is the main issue. 
The Islamic government that we claim to pursue is really Islamic when
 all parts of Islam - its outward and inner aspect - are preserved. 
Islamic government means all the capacities that form the general 
movement of the people and officials. We call this "a system and 
government". The sum of the capacities that lead to the public movement 
of the people and officials is the Islamic government. Now, the outward 
appearance of Islam is the statements that we make and the measures that
 we adopt on the basis of Islam. These things constitute the surface of 
the issue. The inner aspect of Islam is that we should define a goal, 
ideal and destination for ourselves. Then, we should do complete 
planning in order to reach it and move on the same path. And we should 
move on it with all our hearts and souls. If this is done, the inner 
aspect of Islam will be protected and perfected as well as its outward 
appearance. Besides, it does not have any limits for development. Well, 
this is the plan that we need for reaching these goals. 
Today, what we witness in the statements of arrogant powers and the 
opponents of the Islamic government - particularly, the opponents of the
 Islamic Republic - is their insistence on a change in our behavior. 
They sometimes say, "We do not want to change the Islamic Republic. 
Rather, we want a change in its behavior". A change in behavior is not 
different from changing the system. It is exactly the same. A change in 
the inner aspect of Islam is the meaning of this change in behavior. 
When they say that we should change our behavior, it means that we 
should abandon and forget about the main elements of our movement and 
that we should make no effort to preserve them. This is the meaning of a
 change in our behavior. This is what is referred to - in some writings 
and speeches - as the religion of minimums. It means decreasing one's 
ideals and this means the destruction of the inner aspect of Islam. This
 religion of minimums means the complete elimination of religion.
Now, under such circumstances, our goal and main guideline should be 
to pursue Islam in its entirety. We should really do our best - Allah 
the Exalted does not expect us to act beyond our power and capability - 
to pursue this. Our effort and goal should be to establish Islam - in 
its entirety and with all its parts and constituents - in society. When 
this becomes our goal, they immediately bring up a certain issue, namely
 Islamophobia which is common in today's world. In my opinion, we should
 not at all adopt a passive outlook towards the phenomenon of 
Islamophobia. Islamophobia exists.
Some individuals are frightening peoples, societies, youth and minds 
of Islam. Who are these individuals? When we delve deeply into this 
matter and when we think carefully about it, we see that they are the 
same minority of bullies and greedy individuals who are afraid of the 
rule of Islam. They are afraid of political Islam. They are afraid of 
Islam's presence in the heart of societies. The reason for their fear is
 that Islam harms their interests. As a matter of fact, Islamophobia is a
 translation of powers' fear and anxiety in the face of Islam. This is 
the truth of the matter. 
You members of this Assembly really made efforts. The people of Iran 
made efforts as well. They showed diligence and they established and 
brought to power the Islamic government. They strengthened its 
foundations and they immunized and secured it against different matters.
 They strengthened it on a daily basis. This frightens global bullies. 
The Islamophobia that exists today is, in fact, a reflection of their 
anxiety and nervousness. It shows that you have managed to move forward.
 It shows that Islam has been able to successfully launch its movement 
until today.
Of course, despite what are they doing, their movement against Islam 
and their effort to create Islamophobia will produce the opposite 
result. That is to say, their actions will make youth curious about 
Islam. If the masses of the people in the world are given a little nudge
 and if we attract their attention, they will begin to understand why 
the Zionist press and television networks - those which are dependent on
 powerful and well-to-do cliques - launch so many attacks on Islam. This
 will pose a question in their minds and we believe that this question 
has certain blessings and that it can turn this threat into an 
opportunity.
We should make efforts. In the Islamic Republic, the great and 
important feat is that all of us - anyone at any level and with any 
capability in this regard - should make efforts to introduce original 
Islam, one that supports the oppressed and that opposes the oppressor. 
The youth who live in Europe, America and distant countries become 
excited about this kind of Islam. They become excited and it becomes 
clear to them that Islam means a force, motive and thought which moves 
against oppressors and transgressors and in favor of the oppressed. It 
becomes clear to them that Islam has plans to pursue this and that it 
considers it its responsibility to do so.
We should introduce the kind of Islam that supports reason and deep 
philosophies. We should introduce the Islam of thoughts and ideas and 
the kind of Islam that attaches great significance - through the Holy 
Quran - to reason, logic and thought. We should introduce the kind of 
Islam that supports rationality and that opposes partiality, 
fossilization and foolish delusions - these are characteristics that 
some people advocate in the name of Islam. We should say that Islam is 
this. We should say that Islam is committed to fighting against 
decadence. Today, there are many organizations that drag youth towards 
self-indulgence, decadence and indifference on different matters. Well, 
Islam - which believes that human beings have certain responsibilities -
 wants them to remain responsible.
We should introduce the kind of Islam that is present in people's 
lives as opposed to secular Islam. Secular Islam is similar to secular 
Christianity which imprisons itself in a corner of church and which has 
no presence in real life. Secular Islam acts in the same way. Today, 
there are some people who invite people to isolated Islam, one that has 
nothing do with people's lives. This kind of Islam calls on people to 
perform some religious acts in a corner of mosques or houses. We should 
introduce the kind of Islam that is present in people's lives. We should
 introduce the Islam of mercy to the weak and the Islam of jihad and 
fighting against arrogant powers.
In my opinion, this is a responsibility that falls on everyone's 
shoulders. Our promotional and scholarly organizations and our Islamic 
seminaries should pursue this goal. Today, they are targeting Islam on 
many occasions. And it is clear which people, organizations and 
orientations are doing so. They are dependent on a powerful and 
well-to-do clique which is active in economic and political areas and 
whose members are mostly Zionist and Jewish. If not so, they are 
non-Jewish Zionists. Today, we have non-Jewish Zionists in the world as 
well. Against these people, we should benefit from the opportunity to 
pose this question in the minds of people and youth throughout the world
 so that they think about why they are attacking Islam so vigorously. 
Then, we should provide them with real Islam. 
In my opinion, if we clergymen, ulama and people who are working in 
religious areas set this as our goal - that is to say, implementing 
Islam in its entirety and confronting such enmities - we will make many 
achievements.
[Another issue is that] we are faced with some global challenges. I 
believe that we should avoid adopting a superficial outlook towards our 
global challenges. We are faced with certain challenges from America and
 some European countries. Today, these challenges are clear because of 
the nuclear matter, but there are many different matters which are 
causing these challenges between us and them. We should look and see 
where these challenges come from. We should understand the root of them 
and we should avoid superficiality.
Moreover, we should delve into our problems in a deep way. Imagine 
that we receive certain blows from sanctions and that sanctions harm, in
 different ways, our economy and other areas. Where does this harm come 
from? If we delve deeply into the matter, we will see that this harm 
results from our dependence on oil and from the absence of the people in
 economic arenas. It results from governmentalizing economy. It results 
from such things. If we take a look, identify the main factor and cure 
it somehow, sanctions will have either no or little impact. The reason 
why the enemy can impose sanctions on our oil and hurt us by doing so is
 that we have based our lives and economy on oil. The reason why 
sanctions are imposed on different governmental organizations is that 
these organizations belong to the government. We could have involved the
 people in the arena of economy. Well, this is the result of the 
mistakes that we made in the beginning of the Revolution. In those days,
 we used to insist that everything should belong to the administration. 
We even entrusted our administrations with very small affairs. We should
 find a cure for these problems.
I believe that if we think and move like this, problems will be 
solved. In solving our problems, we will not rely on the kindness of the
 other side. We can really influence the challenges that exist between 
us, and our enemies and arrogant powers, one of which is the ongoing 
nuclear negotiations. In the present time, nuclear negotiations have 
engulfed our activities in the area of diplomacy and foreign policy. But
 in my opinion, this outlook, guideline and reason is completely 
effective in our negotiations with them.
I should add that the team and group that the honorable President has
 appointed for the nuclear negotiations are trustworthy and good 
individuals. We are closely acquainted with some of them and we really 
believe in them. And we know some of them out of their statements and 
measures they have taken. They too are trustworthy and diligent. They 
are really working hard. It is necessary for us to say this. Of course, 
although these friends and brothers are good and trustworthy individuals
 and although we know that they are working for the interests of the 
country, I am concerned. This concern is because of the fact that the 
other side is deceitful. One of the things which is usually invisible is
 the deceitfulness of those individuals and orientations that seem to be
 great and respectable. One cannot think that such people are deceitful.
Well, today, America has an attractive appearance and grandeur on the
 face of it: it has monetary, economic, political, military and security
 power. This is why some people ignore the fact that in this powerful 
system, some weak people are deceitful. But this is really the case. 
America is deceitful and dishonest and it stabs people in the back. 
America is like this. We should not think that because they have atomic 
bombs and powerful military equipment, they do not need to use deception
 and trickery. This is not the case. On the contrary, they desperately 
need to use deception, as they are doing so in the present time. This is
 a source of concern for us. We should be careful about the enemy's 
tricks. Whenever we have approached a specific deadline for concluding 
negotiations, the other side's tone - particularly the Americans' - has 
become harsher and more aggressive. The reason is that this is one of 
their methods and tricks.
As you can witness, the statements that they make are really 
ridiculous and disgusting. In the recent days, a Zionist clown [Benjamin
 Netanyahu] travelled to the U.S. and made certain statements there. In 
order to look impartial, they made certain statements, but they accused 
Iran of supporting terrorism. Well, this is a ridiculous claim. Today, 
everyone in the world can witness that the power and government that has
 supported and created the most vicious terrorists - such as DAESH and 
other such groups - is America as well as its allies. Despite their 
claim to oppose these groups, they do not stop supporting them. Those 
people who support, help and join hands with the Americans are 
supporting terrorism and dangerous and malevolent terrorists. America is
 outspokenly supporting a government that officially admits to being a 
terrorist - that is to say, the fake Zionist regime. As a matter of 
fact, supporting terrorism means this and it is the ugliest and most 
disgusting form. This is while they accuse the Islamic Republic of 
advocating terrorism. These matters should receive attention.
The letter that U.S. senators wrote recently is a sign of the 
destruction of political ethics in the American system. One can see all 
sorts of matters in that letter. It is clear that they are really on the
 verge of destruction. According to well-known global regulations, all 
governments in the world should be committed to the promises that they 
make. Imagine that an administration holds office in a country. This 
administration promises to do something. When this administration is 
replaced by another, that promise is still valid and the latter does not
 go back on it. These senators openly said, "When the current U.S. 
administration leaves, the contract that it has signed with you and the 
promise that it has given you will expire as if it did not exist at 
all".
This is a sign that shows the total destruction of political ethics 
in America. It indicates that this system is one that cannot really 
continue. It indicates that this system is totally ruined. This is while
 they say that they want to teach their rules and regulations to the 
Iranians. Well, we do not need their lessons. Even if we reach an 
agreement with them, we know how to act so that they will not be able to
 keep the Islamic Republic behind the door. The officials of the Islamic
 Republic know how to do so and they do not need their lessons. But this
 is how they act. This is really a sign of their downfall.
In any case, in all of our tasks, efforts and decisions on economic 
and cultural matters, we should not forget that our responsibility is to
 implement Islam in its entirety - by Allah's favor, if I live long 
enough, I have certain issues to discuss in the beginning of the new 
year. We should be after practicing complete Islam. It should not be the
 case that we compromise Islamic ideals so that we make an achievement 
on such and such an issue. Our success and progress is dependent on our 
ability to practice complete Islam.
If this is done, Allah the Exalted will help us. And divine 
assistance definitely and undoubtedly relies on us helping God's 
religion: "if you help the cause of Allah, He will help you" [The Holy 
Quran, 47: 7]. There is no clearer and more outspoken ayah in this 
regard. You should help God's religion. "If you help the cause of Allah,
 He will help you and make firm your feet". Another ayah is, "Allah will
 certainly aid those who aid his cause" [The Holy Quran, 22: 40]. These 
are among definite promises made by God. We should not ignore these 
divine promises: "Those who imagine an evil opinion of Allah" [The Holy 
Quran, 48: 6]. If we think that it is impossible for divine promises to 
come true, this is the worst doubt that we can have about Allah the 
Exalted. In the blessed Sura al-Fath, Allah the Exalted expresses His 
anger at those who think like this.
I hope that Allah the Exalted will bestow success on you and us so 
that we can carry out our responsibility in this regard and so that we 
can help ourselves, our country and our people to benefit from the 
blessings of launching this movement. I hope that Allah the Exalted will
 make the pure soul of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) happy. I hope that He
 will make the pure souls of martyrs happy as well because it was they 
who showed and opened this path to us. It was they who helped us take 
it.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

