
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Officials of Sukhtegan-e Vasl Congress"/>
Mr. Sukhtegan, I hope that you will be successful. May God purify all of you [speaking in Arabic]. Well, if there was enough time, we would benefit from Mr. Qazve's and Mr. Amiri's poems. But unfortunately, there is no time. I would like to say a few things.
I express my deep gratitude to the friends who explained the tasks in the area of Sacred Defense literature and what is happening in universities. The atmosphere that you gentlemen described is a divine blessing. We did not create this atmosphere. Rather, it was Allah the Exalted Who created it. Hearts are in His hands. Guidance is in His hands. If things were supposed to take their natural course, the opposite of this would happen. We human beings show laziness and fail to carry out our responsibilities. However, Allah the Exalted helped us and divine mercy has blessed every move that is made in different corners. This atmosphere has been created. Therefore, it is a divine blessing.

If you want it to be preserved and strengthened, you should thank God. We should try to benefit from this divine blessing as a way of expressing our gratitude to God. One of the requirements of thanking God is that we do not let a blessing remain idle. We should identify blessings and know that they have come from God. Then, we should employ them. This is a practical way of thanking the God of the world. By Allah's favor, this should and will be expanded. When one takes a look, one sees divine mercy: "Look then at the signs of Allah's mercy" [The Holy Quran, 30: 50]. We can see the signs of Allah's mercy in different corners of our society and in the events that are taking place inside and outside our country.
By Allah's favor, you should try to benefit from these talents. As you said, one day, there were some youth who received awards, but today they offer awards. One day, they were listeners, but now they have a large number of listeners. This is thankfully good and it is, in fact, a movement. One can see this. Well, it is several years now that I have been in contact with revolutionary literature, art and poetry. Growth [in this area] is completely tangible. However, you should not be satisfied and arrogant at all. You should not at all think that there is no level beyond what you have achieved. This is not the case.



We have very good poets. The gentlemen who are present in this meeting and others are very good poets and there have been better ones and there can be better ones in the future. We want these poets to reach peaks. By Allah's favor, they should make efforts. Everyone should make efforts. It should not be the case that if we compose good poems, we say, "We have reached the peaks and there is nothing beyond that". We should improve our poems and we should improve literature. We should write better fiction. We have many shortcomings in the area of fiction which, by Allah's favor, should be made up for. I hope that by Allah's favor, you will be successful.

