
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Address to a Group of People from East Azarbaijan Province"/>
I express my welcome and gratitude to all the dear brothers and sisters who took a long trip in order to come here and attend this gathering.
The commemoration of the event that took place in Tabriz on February 18, 1978 is a praiseworthy action that indicates the vigilance and political awareness of the residents of that city. 
The arrogant powers are making every effort to dilute the revolutionary values and undermine the religious and national zeal of the Iranian nation. But the devout Iranian people are foiling the diabolic plots of the enemies by firmly adhering to their religious and revolutionary principles. The commemoration of the events that were landmarks in the course of the Islamic Revolution is also a positive step in this direction.
What happened in Tabriz on February 18, 1978 was one of the major events in the course of the revolution. On this day, the brave and vigilant residents of Tabriz held a rally marking the 40th day after the martyrdom of a large number of people in the city of Qom at the hands of the agents of the Pahlavi regime. This grand rally proved a landmark in the course of the Islamic Revolution.
The former regime had assumed that by crushing the uprising of people in the city of Qom on January 9, 1978 it could put an end to the Islamic movement of the Iranian people. However, the massive demonstration in Tabriz 40 days later revealed the falsity of this assumption and also displayed the great political awareness and the national and religious zeal and devotion of the Tabriz residents.
The people of Tabriz and Azarbaijan Province are distinguished for these qualities. Even before the Islamic Revolution, the people of Azarbaijan Province displayed the same qualities in the course of the Constitutional Movement. Besides, one of the leaders of the campaign against Britain's economic domination of Iran was the prominent scholar late Haj Mirza Javad Mojtahed, who was one of the senior clerics of Tabriz.
In fact, it was due to these qualities that the Iranian nation achieved victory. This is why the enemies of this nation are now doing their utmost to dilute these characteristics. The arrogant powers always try to destroy the driving force behind the movement of nations, namely their unity and political awareness and their national and religious zeal and enthusiasm.
Today, the arrogant powers are spreading negative propaganda against the Islamic Republic, and they are using different media in their smear campaign against our nation. However, the Iranian people have often made it clear that they would never compromise their values and principles.
The grand nationwide rallies this year on the anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution once again proved that the devout Iranians are determined to safeguard the achievements of their revolution and their independence and dignity. But some international media affiliated to the global arrogance in their reports tried to play down this high turnout. 
Indeed, what the arrogant powers are dreaming of is domination of our country and furthering their own interests at the expense of humiliating our nation, trampling on its honor and dignity and keeping it backward. However, the Iranian people have thwarted the illegitimate goals of these bandits and civilized-looking barbarians for the past 24 years and shown that they would never allow these powers to achieve their objectives.
The enemies always try to hide their real intentions. Today, they are seeking to achieve their goals by chanting the attractive slogans of human rights and democracy. But they cannot deceive nations forever, and their true nature will ultimately be exposed.
For instance, with regard to the issue of Iraq, the U.S. officials have openly said that they intend to station their military forces in Iraq and install a pro-U.S. ruler in that country at least for two years! But even this would not satisfy them. In other words, the United States would not settle for anything less than total plunder of Iraq's natural and mineral resources.
However, it is not possible for the U.S. objective to be realized today. It is true that around a century ago, the colonialists took advantage of the ignorance and backwardness of the nations in Africa, Asia or Latin America and furthered their own illegitimate interests. But the U.S. officials are wrong in assuming that they can do the same thing today. Indeed, even if U.S. forces occupy Iraq, the Iraqi nation will ultimately give them a hard slap on the face.
Today, the United States cannot treat other nations in any way that it desires. The Iranian people stood up to the arrogance and expansionist attitude of the United States and restored their independence. In fact what caused this awakening in our nation was the remembrance of Almighty Allah and adherence to Islam and the holy Qur'an.
The devoted Iranians are still as determined as ever to defend their independence and national sovereignty, despite all the pressure and negative propaganda of the arrogant powers. This is because the Iranian people have paid a high price and sacrificed their dear ones for their independence, and because they love their religion, revolution and Islamic system.
Our youngsters are exemplary in the world, since they are pious, dedicated, brave and firmly adhering to the values and principles of their religion and revolution.
My dear youngsters! This country is yours, and today it is your turn to safeguard the achievements of the Islamic Revolution. I believe that you can play your historic role and pass all difficult tests with success and honor.
I pray to Almighty Allah to assist you in keeping the banner of revolution, which is the banner of dignity of our nation, hoisted in this country. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
