
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Air Force Commanders and Personnel"/>
I would like to welcome the dear brothers and the officials who have 
very sensitive occupations in a very important sector of the Armed 
Forces - that is to say, the Air Force of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
Army. I congratulate all of you, all the personnel of the Air Force of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran Army and your families on this day which 
is, in fact, the day of the Air Force. Also, I thank the choir for their
 good performance.
The issue of the 19th of Bahman - which is commemorated by you every 
year - is beyond remembering a sweet memory. Of course, it is an 
important and sweet memory and it is necessary for one to evoke these 
memories, but the issue is beyond this. The event of the 19th of Bahman 
is a meaningful and eternal occasion. The event that took place - during
 which the youth of the air force of the monarchic system went and 
pledged their allegiance to Imam (r.a.) in an outspoken and courageous 
way - has a certain meaning and significance which should be preserved. 
This is a revolutionary responsibility. I myself was present in that 
ceremony. Some of these youth held their identification cards up and 
showed it to everyone.
Now, what the significance of this? It is the fact that the 
Revolution was a rightful and attractive claim that managed to attract 
hearts - pure, well-informed and enlightened hearts which had no 
ulterior motives - in all areas of the country. This attraction even 
included a place like the air force of the monarchic army which was the 
favorite of the ruling system of those days and of America. The air 
force of the army was treated like a favorite. Both the Americans and 
their agents inside our country - who unfortunately had affairs in their
 hands - treated the air force like this. However, the same air force 
was moved - under the influence of the Revolution's truth - so strongly 
that it carried out such a great task. In front of the eyes of many 
agents and while they were under different threats, they went and 
pledged their allegiance with Imam (r.a.) on Iran Street. They sang 
songs, they stood firm and they held up their identification cards. The 
significance of that event is this: the astonishing event of the 
Revolution and the truth behind it attracted hearts to itself. We should
 identify, know and preserve this.
The same thing happened in the world. Well, this Revolution had the 
capability to penetrate and show its presence in all corners of the 
country. The people - not only in cities but also in villages - used to 
go to different places and shout slogans. They used to shout slogans in 
favor of Imam (r.a.) and the Revolution and against the tyrannical and 
dictatorial regime. This was the way all the people rose up. The same 
thing happened at a global level. Of course, it happened gradually. It 
happened all over the world including Asia and the depths of Africa. 
Even in Latin America, the people were impressed the truth that a people
 have emerged who have the courage and bravery to stand up against 
America and to reject its bullying in an outspoken way.
Many people tried to tune in to Iranian radio programs. I saw some 
people in Arab countries who had learnt Farsi because they used to 
listen to Iranian radio programs a lot. This is magnetism. This is the 
magnetism of the Revolution that managed to attract the hearts of the 
masses of the people, intellectuals, youth and academic personalities in
 every place throughout the world that was not under the vast influence 
of the enemy's propaganda.
This happened all over the world. Those peoples who suffered from 
America's and other western powers' bullying advocated and loved the 
Revolution because they saw that a people were standing up against 
bullying and oppression. This love and support existed everywhere in, we
 shall say, the world of the weak - in Africa, in Asia and in more 
distant areas in Latin America. We were completely aware of this because
 many people used to come and go and the influence of the Revolution and
 the name of Imam (r.a.) was easily visible.
Well, who formed the opposite camp? The opposite camp was formed by 
those powers against whom this great movement had been launched. The 
government of the United States of America was the head of these powers.
 They were extremely agitated at the sight of such a great and ongoing 
movement that was enveloping all nations under their influence. This was
 why they became wild and reacted very strongly. The first cure that 
came to their mind was to silence the center. They wanted to silence the
 center from which all this excitement emerged so that the issue would 
be resolved naturally. Therefore, they exerted pressure as much as they 
could.
Youth should know that the enmity of America towards the Islamic 
Republic began from the first day. They did whatever they could. America
 did not fail to take any course of action that was in its power in 
order to harm our people and our country in military, economic and 
security areas and in the area of cultural communications. They have 
done whatever they could until today. Their enmity was and still is 
towards our Revolution. Their enmity is towards a people who have 
accepted and cherished this Revolution. Some people wrongly pretend that
 the enmity of America and that arrogant regime is towards individuals. 
They think that the Americans were enemies Imam (r.a.) and today, they 
are enemies of Ali Khamenei. But this is not the case. Their enmity is 
towards the essence of this concept and movement. Their enmity is 
towards the essence of this orientation which is marked by resistance, 
independence and dignity. Their enmity is towards a people who have 
cherished and implemented these concepts.
This enmity existed in those days, it exists in the present time and 
it will continue to exist in the future. They bear a grudge against a 
people who have stood by this claim and who have endured the 
difficulties. Some American politicians made a mistake by acknowledging 
this. They gave themselves away and they acknowledged that they are 
opposed to the people of Iran. In the present time too, any move which 
is made by the Americans and their allies and cohorts is for the sake of
 bringing the people of Iran to their knees and humiliating them.
Of course, they are making a mistake and their analyses are wrong. It
 is a fact that the Americans are wrong about their analyses of the 
events of the region, particularly the events of our dear country. They 
are making strategic mistakes and it is the same mistakes that are 
constantly damaging and frustrating them. They are making 
miscalculations.
A few days ago, an American politician stated that the Iranians have 
gotten stuck and that they participate in nuclear negotiations with 
hands tied. Well, this is a miscalculation. The Iranians have not gotten
 stuck. By Allah's favor, you will see what the people of Iran will do 
on the 22nd of Bahman and how they will show their presence in that 
rally. Then it will become clear if the Iranian people's hands are tied 
or not. The hands of the people of Iran are not tied and they have shown
 and will continue to show this in practice. 
The same is true of the officials of the country. God willing, the 
officials of the country too will show with their innovations and 
courage that the hands of the people of Iran are not tied. He thinks 
that they have cornered Iran. He says that the Iranians have their backs
 against the wall. This is not the case and you are making a mistake. It
 is you who have serious problems. All the realities of our region show 
that America has failed in its goals inside and outside the region. 
America was defeated in Syria. It was defeated in Iraq and Lebanon. It 
was defeated on the issue of Palestine and Gaza. America has been 
defeated in dominating the affairs of Afghanistan and Pakistan. It is 
hated by the people of these countries. The same is true of the events 
outside the region. America has been defeated in Ukraine. It is you who 
have suffered defeats. It is many years now that you have been facing 
defeats one after another.
The Islamic Republic has moved forward. Today, the Islamic Republic 
is not comparable with 35 years ago. Are our numerous experiences, feats
 and achievements, our great regional influence and the deep penetration
 of the Revolution's principles in the hearts of the youth of this 
country minor achievements? These events exist and they are facts. 
They are making miscalculations on different matters. By Allah's 
favor and with the determination of the people and you youth, the same 
things that the honorable commander in this meeting referred to about 
the activities of the Air Force are being pursued in different other 
sectors and in all the organizations of the country. And such things are
 being done while we are under sanctions. They are being done while the 
enemies are imposing sanctions on us. We have made progress in different
 sciences and technologies. We have made progress on different social 
matters. We have made progress on different international matters. 
Different experiences will constantly provide an invaluable provision 
for the Islamic Republic. We are moving forward and making progress 
despite the enemy. It is they who have failed. They wanted to uproot the
 Islamic Republic. They are not willing to tolerate the Islamic 
Republic, but today, they have to do so. On different matters, they 
deliver as many blows as they can with various political, security, 
economic and cultural tricks and plots, but it is of no avail. The 
Islamic Republic is making progress with complete power.
Now, they refer to the nuclear issue as an example and they pretend 
that the Islamic Republic has become desperate in this regard, but this 
is not the case.
I want to say that first of all, I consent to an agreement that is 
workable. Of course, I do not mean a bad agreement. The Americans 
constantly repeat, "We believe that making no agreement is better than 
making a bad one". We too have the same opinion. We too believe that 
making no agreement is better than making an agreement that is to the 
disadvantage of national interests, one that leads to the humiliation of
 the great and magnificent people of Iran.
Second, everyone should know that our officials, our negotiating team
 and our administration are doing their best to take away the option of 
sanctions from the enemy. They are trying to take away the option of 
sanctions from this deceptive and treacherous enemy. If they can do so, 
then so much the better, but if they fail, both our enemies and our 
friends throughout the world should know that there are many solutions 
inside the country which can slow down the enemy's plot. It is not the 
case that we think the enemy's plot of imposing sanctions is undoubtedly
 a practical and effective one. This is not the case. If we show 
determination and if we pay due attention to our own resources - 
thankfully, this spirit exists - we can slow down the enemy's plot even 
if we fail to take it away from his hands.
Third, recently the honorable President raised a good point in a 
speech which is: negotiation means that the two sides should try to 
reach a common point. Well, this means that one side should not try to 
achieve everything that it wants and expects. However, the Americans are
 like this. They and a few European countries - which follow America 
like a child and which are making a strategic mistake in doing so - say 
that everything that they want should be achieved exactly as they want 
it. Well, this shows their greed and this is wrong. This is not the way 
to negotiate.
The Iranian side has done whatever it could to reach an agreement. It
 has done many things: it has stopped developing enrichment machines. 
Well, it deemed it necessary to stop these machines for a while. It has 
stopped producing 20-percent uranium which is a very great feat. It was a
 very great achievement to produce 20-percent uranium. Those who are 
experts on this matter know that producing 20 percent from 5 percent is 
much more significant than producing uranium which is higher than 20 
percent. However, our youth and our committed scientists did so. In any 
case, the Iranian side stopped this because negotiations required it. 
The Iranians have closed the Arak Factory - which was a very great 
achievement and a very important innovation in the area of technology - 
for now. They have closed - for now - Fordo which is one of the best 
innovations made by our domestic forces for the sake of ensuring the 
security of our centrifuges. They have achieved so many great tasks. 
Therefore, the Iranian side has acted in a reasonable way. It has acted 
according to the requirements of negotiation.
On the contrary, the other side is greedy, it behaves in an impolite 
and impudent way and it wants to blackmail us. Well, if our officials 
show resistance on such matters, they are right and no one should blame 
them. They should show and are showing resistance. From the beginning, 
the Islamic Republic moved with reason on different issues. During the 
Sacred Defense Era, we made reason and logic our main principle. We 
acted in a reasonable way in the process of accepting the resolution. We
 have acted in a reasonable way on different matters after the war and 
until today. The Islamic Republic has not acted in an irrational way on 
any matter. On this matter too, it is moving forward with reason. 
However, the other side does not know anything about reason. They 
themselves acknowledge their irrationality which is accompanied by 
reliance on bullying. They say, "We have managed to force Iran into 
stopping its nuclear machines and different other things. We have made 
it stop and close such and such a thing".
They are right, the Islamic
 Republic has carried out these tasks, but it has done so according to 
the requirements of negotiation. However, they show greed. Well, the 
people of Iran do not give in to greed and bullying.
We are satisfied with the progress that our governmental officials 
have begun. They are making efforts. They are really making efforts and 
they are putting time and energy into it. If they make a good agreement,
 it is fine by us. I myself agree with that and I am sure that the 
people of Iran are not opposed to an agreement which preserves their 
dignity, respect and interests. However, these requirements should 
undoubtedly be considered. The respect and dignity of the people of Iran
 and the fundamental issue of the progress of the Iranian nation should 
be preserved and protected.
The people of Iran are not used to listening to the enemies' 
bullying. They are not used to surrendering to their oppression and 
blackmail no matter if the other side is America or others. One day, 
America and the former Soviet Union joined hands against the Islamic 
Republic. Despite their differences, they used to bully us together, but
 the Islamic Republic did not give in to their bullying and it became 
victorious and successful. The same is true of today. Today too, the 
people of Iran and the Islamic Republic do not give in to bullying. 
We have heard that they say, "Let us agree about general principles 
for the moment. Later on, we can come to an agreement about details". I 
do not like this. Our experience about the behavior of the other side 
gives us the feeling that this will become a tool for them to make 
constant excuses about details. If they want to make an agreement, they 
should agree about details and general points in one single session and 
then they should sign it. If they come to an agreement about general 
points and then they attend to details on the basis of these general 
points - which are vague, interpretable and analyzable things - this is 
not reasonable.
Everything that is agreed upon between our officials and the other 
side should be clear and transparent and it should not be open to 
interpretation. It should not be the case that the other side - which 
achieves its goals by breaking its promises and by haggling - continues 
to make excuses on different matters, go back on its promises and make 
things difficult. Everything that is done is for the sake of taking the 
weapon and option of sanctions away from the enemy's hands. If they can 
do so, then it will be good. Of course, sanctions should be taken away 
from the enemy in the true sense of the word. Sanctions should really be
 lifted. Our agreement should be like this. However, if they fail to 
make such an agreement, the people of Iran, officials, the honorable 
administration and others have many different options. They should 
definitely take these options so that they can counteract and slow the 
plot of imposing sanctions. 
By Allah's favor, the people of Iran will show on the 22nd of Bahman 
that those who want to humiliate the people of Iran will face their 
counterblow. All the people of Iran and sympathetic personalities share 
the belief that national dignity is very very important for a country. 
If dignity exists, security will exist as well and if security exists, 
progress will be possible as well. But if a people are humiliated, 
everything that they have - including their security and wealth - will 
be gambled on. Therefore, national dignity should be preserved and 
officials know this. By Allah's grace, on the 22nd of Bahman, the people
 of Iran will bring the enemy to his knees with their presence and by 
displaying their power and firm determination.
Dear God, bestow Your kindness and blessings on all the people of 
Iran. Bestow Your guidance on all of us. Dear God, associate the dear 
martyrs of the Sacred Defense Era, martyrs before and after that and all
 the martyrs of our Armed Forces and Air Force with the Holy Prophet 
(s.w.a.). Associate our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) - that great man who 
launched this blessed movement - with the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.).
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
