
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech at Nanotechnology Exhibition"/>
Today was a very good and sweet day for me because I witnessed the outstanding work that has thankfully been carried out and developed in the area of nanotechnology in the country. Of course, each and every honorable individual that has made an effort to carry out all this work deserves to be thanked separately. We should pray for the progress of each and every one of them.
Fortunately, the issue of nanotechnology is a successful experience for our country. It shows that when an enthusiastic, diligent and knowledgeable group of people focus on a certain matter and when they move forward with plans, there will be visible progress and leaps in that work. The progress of nanotechnology is a value in itself. Besides, it is valuable for us because it is a model that we can follow and consider as a standard for all tasks of the country. About 10 years ago, we had a meeting with people in charge of nanotechnology. They gave me a report and explained the issue of nanotechnology to us. Then they began to work on it. Fortunately today, we can see that this scientific and research-based area has made a giant leap. That is to say, the task has developed in a progressive way.
I thank Allah the Exalted that such a thing has happened. The important matter is that you find the factors behind this progress. You should preserve these factors some of which are good plans, stability in management and diligence in creating a culture and discourse. Recently, I saw that a group of students are following this issue. I witnessed that they are following it at a level which is higher than the ordinary capabilities of our students. I also witnessed that certain tasks have been carried out - in this regard - for different sectors. This is creating discourse and it is very important. That is to say, the thought and discourse to follow the issue of nanotechnology should be created in the country.
Well, the issue of nanotechnology is very important. We do not want to say that it is more important than all other affairs of the country and all other technological matters. This is not what we want to say, but it is one of the most important issues in the scientific and technological progress of the country. We should make this a model for our different tasks and we should preserve these factors in the progress of the country, some of which I referred to. We should complete our plans on a daily basis.
Achievements should not make us arrogant. This is very important. Fortunately, your progress has been very good during the past 10 years. You have risen to a high rank in the world. You have come seventh in the world and this is very important. However, this should not make us satisfied with what we have achieved so far and it should not make us desire to preserve the current condition. You should move forward and you should not abandon the thought of making progress - in this area - on a daily basis. Moreover, different talents will be attracted to this area. The young boys and girls that I see in this meeting are very talented. If this issue had not been introduced to them, then the ground would not have been prepared for their research and their talent would not have been displayed. We do not know the many talented individuals who exist in our country. We should open the arena so that talents can be recognized and cultivated. 
Today, we very much need work. We suffer from a historical backwardness and poverty in scientific and research areas. Although it is true that today we enjoy the fastest rate of scientific progress in the world and that it is much higher than the global average, the best thing that this fast rate can do is to make up - to some extent - for this historical backwardness and poverty. We should continue this until we reach the front lines. Why do way say the front lines? It is because we both have the resources and the need to do so. There are so many good talents in our country. The average of talented people in our country is higher than the global average. This has been proved and it is an undeniable fact. We have many talents which should be cultivated and which should produce results.
Second, we need to progress. We need this. Today, we can see that the independent political, social and intellectual attitude of the people of Iran and the Islamic Republic has made global bullying powers to show enmity towards us. This enmity is showing itself in many areas. Well, when all this enmity is shown towards us, we should strengthen ourselves and we should achieve the power that we need.
Fortunately, tasks in all areas have moved forward in a satisfactory way and I require that you do not allow the factors behind our progress in the area of nanotechnology - that is to say, showing stability in management, completing plans and avoiding political environments - to be eliminated. One of the most important tasks is that you should not allow the political motives that exist outside to penetrate into your organization because it will ruin things. You should preserve the good environment that exists as you have thankfully done so until now and you should not allow it to be destroyed. Dr. Sattari is also present in the meeting and he can help this organization to make progress.
It was indicated in a chart that the budget for this area is very small compared to other countries in the world. This issue should receive more attention. I hope that Allah the Exalted will help you. We too will pray for you. We pray that God will help you. If we live long enough, by Allah's favor, we will meet you with more achievements later on. If we are not alive, the country will - by Allah's favor - witness your achievements. The issue of channeling the work into the market and sources of wealth - I saw this in a number of reports - is very important. You should do something to help knowledge-based companies benefit from your products and thoughts in the real sense of the word. This will help your scientific and research work to show its effects in the living environments of the people. This is a guarantee for the development of your work. I hope that by Allah's favor, this will happen and that you will live a long life. 
