
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Officials and Participants of Conference on Islamic Unity"/>
I would like to congratulate all the honorable participants on the 
occasion of the auspicious birthday anniversaries of the Holy Prophet of
 Islam and Imam Sadiq (peace and greetings be upon them). The officials 
of the country, the dear guests of Unity Week and the honorable 
ambassadors of Islamic countries are present in this meeting. I would 
like to congratulate all of you on this blessed and great Eid.
I would like to extend my congratulations to the people of Iran, 
Islamic nations, the entire Islamic Ummah and all liberated people 
throughout the world - those for whom the issue of freedom and human 
values is very important. Today is the birthday anniversary of the 
prophet of knowledge, wisdom, morality, mercy and unity. He was the 
prophet of all great human virtues. Anyone who is attached to these 
human virtues loves the Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.).
You and I - the Muslims who claim and feel proud to follow this great
 personality and who are prepared to show resistance, lay down our lives
 and spend money on his path - need to follow his teachings and make 
efforts on this path. The message of Islam includes this obedience and 
learning - that is to say, the knowledge, wisdom, acumen, mercy, unity, 
morality and other human characteristics that the Holy Prophet's 
(s.w.a.) message promoted and that Hazrat Abi Abdullah Ja'far ibn 
Muhammad al-Sadiq (peace and greetings be upon him) made the most 
efforts to promote and establish. Today, this is the responsibility of 
all Muslims. Of course, the masses of the people follow the officials of
 countries. It is governments, outstanding personalities, intellectuals,
 ulama, politicians and other such personalities who have the main 
responsibility in this vast arena.
Today, when I take a look at the issues of our own society and the 
issues of the world of Islam, I see that although all these great 
matters - including knowledge, wisdom and morality - are important for 
the world of Islam, the thing that is of primary importance is unity. We
 Muslims have drifted away from one another to a great extent. 
Unfortunately, certain policies have been successful in separating 
Muslims and the hearts of Muslim groups from one another. Today, we need
 unity.
In this vast region - which forms a great portion of the population 
of the whole world - if Muslim nations join hands in general 
orientations, not in details, then the world of Islam will achieve 
progress and transcendence. If they are seen together, this will exert 
great influence. If heads and outstanding personalities of Islamic 
countries speak against one another, this emboldens the enemy and gives 
him hope. Today, this is the way things are. If we stay together even in
 our statements, this brings about greatness for the world of Islam and 
for the personality of the Islamic Ummah. Whenever we witnessed 
instances of this unity and gathering - even if it is a mere gathering 
of bodies - its reflection in the world brought about dignity for Islam,
 for Muslims and for the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.).
When we read Eid ul-Fitr prayers together, we say, "You Who have 
turned this day into an Eid for Muslims. You Who have turned this day 
into a source of dignity, greatness and abundance for Muhammad (God's 
greetings be upon him and his household)" [al-Iqbal, page 289]. Even the
 mere gathering of bodies during prayers is a source of dignity for the 
Holy Prophet (s.w.a.). It is a source of pride and respect for the 
Islamic Ummah. The same is true of the gathering of Hajj.
This year, you witnessed that during Husseini Arbaeen, millions of 
people gathered. People all over the world bowed down in respect to this
 great movement which was launched by a group of Muslims - of course, it
 was not particular to Shias and Sunnis too participated in this rally -
 and which sent waves throughout the world. They considered it to be the
 greatest rally in the world. Who had such an opinion? Those who follow 
Islamic issues.
I deem it necessary to thank the government, people and different 
tribes of Iraq who made sacrifices, rendered services and showed 
greatness of character in this very important test. This year's Arbaeen 
of Karbala was an astonishing event. The enemies of Islam and Ahlul Bayt
 vainly thought that they had blocked the path of Muslims. Notice what a
 great movement was launched. When even bodies stay together, it has 
such a reflection. If we stay together, if Islamic governments and 
Muslim nations - whether Shia or Sunni or different denominations of 
Shia and Sunni - are honest with one another, if they are not suspicious
 of one another, if they do not insult and have malevolent intentions 
against one another, notice what will happen in the world and what great
 dignity will be brought about for Islam. Unity, unity!
Today, some elements both among Sunnis and Shias are working at 
separating Muslims from one another. If you trace these elements, you 
will see that all of them are connected to espionage and intelligence 
services of the enemies of Islam - not the enemies of Iran and Shia 
Muslims, rather the enemies of Islam. The kind of Shia which works with 
the MI6 of England and the kind of Sunni which is a mercenary of the CIA
 of America are neither Shia nor Sunni. Both of them are against Islam. 
It is 35 years now that we in the Islamic Republic are letting out this 
cry. We do not only speak, rather we act. The Islamic Republic's 
assistance to its Muslim brothers has mostly been given to Sunnis. We 
have stood beside the Palestinians. We have stood beside the religious 
people of regional countries because we know that today, the issue of 
unity is at the top of Islamic issues.
I advise and I insist that well-known ulama, outstanding 
personalities and politicians of the world of Islam do not speak so much
 about discord and disunity. Some people in the world are spending money
 in order to promote Islamophobia and damage the reputation of Islam. 
And we ourselves are trying to damage one another's reputation and 
frighten people of one another. This is against wisdom and politics.
I have heard that some regional governments have based their foreign 
policy on confronting Iran. Why should they do this? This is against 
reason. This is against wisdom. This is an idiotic course of action. Why
 should someone make such a great mistake? On the contrary, we have 
based our foreign policy on camaraderie, brotherhood and friendly 
relationship with all Muslim and regional countries, whether those which
 are our neighbors and those which are not. This is our policy. We have 
acted in the same way until now and we will act in the same way in the 
future.
Thankfully today, the people of Iran have gained such a deep 
awareness that they know the future interest of their country depends on
 Islamic unity with other Muslim nations and countries. Of course, some 
people are trying very hard to create obstacles in the way of this 
unity, to arouse suspicions and to temp the people, but our people have 
thankfully understood this today. The cry of our magnanimous Imam (r.a.)
 - both before the victory of the Revolution and after the formation of 
the Islamic government - about the issue of unity paid off and our 
people became aware.
This is the responsibility of everyone. Today, all Muslims throughout
 the world should think about the Islamic Ummah and Islamic unity. If we
 think of the Islamic Ummah, the interests of our countries will be 
safeguarded as well. The interest of the enemy lies in separating us 
from one another. His interest lies in attacking one country and raising
 an army with the help of another country. His interest lies in this. We
 should not allow him to do this. Who is the enemy? The enemy is 
American capitalism and global arrogance which is headed today by 
America and the Zionists. The Zionist government in occupied Palestine 
is part of the dangerous group and the deadly cancer which the Zionists 
have created in the world. We should stand up against them. We should 
refer to Islam and Quranic texts in order to stand up against them.
Sometimes, one takes a look at some writings and sees that some 
people write certain things which are not based on Quranic ayahs. The 
Holy Quran says, "Say you: 'We believe in Allah, and the revelation 
given to us, and to Ibrahim, Isma'il, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes, and 
that given to Moses and Jesus, and that given to all prophets from their
 Lord'" [The Holy Quran, 2: 136]. After the Holy Quran speaks about the 
conditions that Muslims should believe in, it says, "So if they believe 
as you believe, they are indeed on the right path" [The Holy Quran, 2: 
137].
Islam does not believe in pluralism. Those who promote the idea that 
Islam believes in pluralism because it has praised Hazrat Moses and 
Hazrat Jesus should refer to the Holy Quran and Islamic texts. They put 
forward this idea without enough information and out of ignorance. This 
is Islam: "So if they believe as you believe, they are indeed on the 
right path. But if they turn back, it is they who are in schism, but 
Allah will suffice you as against them" [The Holy Quran, 2: 137]. This 
is the meaning of the Holy Quran. It says about the Holy Prophet 
(s.w.a.), "Ardently anxious is he over you. To the believers is he most 
kind and merciful" [The Holy Quran, 9: 128]. He is kind to believers and
 "those who are with him are strong against unbelievers, but 
compassionate amongst each other" [The Holy Quran, 48: 29]. 
You should be strong against those who show enmity to you and who are
 your enemies. You should be firm against them. You should not be like a
 soft earthwork which the enemy can infiltrate easily. You should stand 
firm against the enemy, but you should be compassionate among 
yourselves. You should be honest with and kind to one another. Names 
should not be able to separate you. Geographical borders should not 
arouse hostility among you and they should not be able to pit nations 
against one another. This is one of the lessons of the Holy Prophet 
(s.w.a.). Today - which is the birthday anniversary of the Holy Prophet 
(s.w.a.) - we should learn his lessons. Mere praise of that great 
personality is not the only thing that is expected of us today. We 
should learn his lessons. We should achieve what the Holy Prophet 
(s.w.a.) was sent for. As I said, the primary thing in today's world of 
Islam is unity. I hope that Allah the Exalted helps us to succeed in 
doing what we say.
Dear God, make the world of Islam and the Islamic Ummah stronger and more successful on a daily basis.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
