
<meta year="2015" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with People from the Holy City of Qom"/>
I would like to welcome all the dear brothers and sisters, the 
honorable ulama and dear youth and I congratulate all of you, the entire
 people of Iran and the entire Islamic Ummah on the occasion of the 
auspicious birthday anniversaries of the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.) 
and Imam Sadiq (peace and greetings be upon him).
The first thing that I deem necessary to say on the occasion of the 
19th of Dey - which is a historical, great and determining day - is a 
word of thanks to the dear people of Qom because they did not and will 
not allow this event to be forgotten. There were certain motivations for
 consigning to oblivion these great days and events. They are still 
working hard in order to consign to oblivion the determining and mostly 
honorable events of the Revolution such as the Sacred Defense Era and 
other such eras. They want to consign the 9th of Dey to oblivion as 
well.
Oppressors and tyrants wanted to eliminate the event of the Husseini 
Ashura as well, but Zaynab al-Kubra (God's greetings be upon her) did 
not allow this to happen. Our lady - Zaynab al-Kubra - made two moves in
 order to do this: one was made during her capture and her transfer to 
Kufa and Shaam where she made illuminating and enlightening speeches. 
The other move was making a pilgrimage to Karbala in Arbaeen. This was 
either the first or second Arbaeen. This move means that we should not 
allow the malevolent motives which intend to erase dear, influential and
 important eras from memories to be successful.
Of course, they will not be successful. As long as nations are alive,
 as long as truthful tongues speak and as long as religious hearts are 
motivated, they will not be able to erase these eras and events, as they
 have not been successful until today. In the early Islamic era, these 
hostile and spiteful motives prevailed for many years. After the passage
 of 170, 180 years from the event of Ashura, Mutawakkil - an Abbasid 
caliph - tried to destroy the pure grave of Aba Abdillah (a.s.). This 
means that the people of Iran should expect the enemies to continue - 
for quite a long time - their work, fitnas and malevolent plots in order
 to destroy the beauties of the Revolution. The enemy will not stop 
until it can either distort the Revolution or it can consign it to 
oblivion and do something to make the people of Iran themselves forget 
and show negligence towards their own movement, legacy and the great 
feat that they have accomplished. A person who does not know about his 
glorious past cannot create a glorious future for himself. The enemies 
are making this effort.
It is you who have kept the 19th of Dey alive. It is you who have 
kept the 29th of Bahman alive. It is you who have kept the 22nd of 
Bahman alive. It is you who have preserved, with particular motives, the
 9th of Dey which is a similar event. This is a jihadi movement in the 
face of the enemies. They want to do something to distort and consign to
 oblivion the truths of the Revolution. They are spending money and 
working on this. Those who are familiar with the world of books, 
newspapers and articles can see what the enemies are doing. Today, they 
are trying to ornament and raise the status of the evil and malevolent 
Pahlavi regime - the corrupt, dependent, malevolent and oppressive 
regime that kept our country backward for many years and that created 
great problems for the people of Iran. Today, this is being done by the 
camp which stands against the Islamic Republic. Their supporters are 
those people who were opposed to the essence of the Revolution, who were
 against the revolutionary people of Iran and who are still strongly 
opposed to the peoples loyalty to the Revolution. Of course, they have 
not managed to achieve their goal until today.
They hoped to turn the second and third generations of the Revolution
 away from the Revolution, but they failed. It was youth - the third 
generation of the Revolution - who created the 9th of Dey which was a 
great event. They delivered a hard slap across the face of those who 
tried to make the Islamic movement deviate by creating fitna. Who did 
this? It was the youth, the third generation of the Revolution, who did 
this. Today, they have pinned their hopes on next generations and future
 youth because they know that these individuals are the main resource of
 the people of Iran. This desire exists within them. Until the time that
 you good youth and pious people are present in the scene, are 
motivated, have foresight, are aware of what you are doing, they will 
not succeed.
Well, what was the 19th of Dey? Everyone knows that the 19th of Dey 
became a turning point for the public movement of the people of Iran. 
The fire of this movement had already been fueled and it developed every
 day, but its appearance and its ignition began from the 19th of Dey by 
the people of Qom. This event led to many different movements until the 
people of Iran entered the arena unanimously. They accepted the 
invitation of our dear, courageous, divine and spiritual Imam (r.a.) and
 they confronted that corrupt regime. 
What was the regime which the people of Iran confronted? Which people
 formed this regime? These are very important questions. I will refer to
 two, three characteristics of this regime. As I said, today there are 
certain motives for distorting facts. That is to say, they are trying to
 ornament and decorate the face of the ugliest, the darkest and the most
 malevolent rulers of this country in its recent history in a way that 
the people cannot discover the truth and in a way that they do not 
understand what they did to this Revolution.
One of the characteristic of that corrupt regime was dark 
dictatorship and suppression of the people with the cruelest methods. 
These methods may exist in other countries as well. We ourselves have 
witnessed up close what they did and how they behaved towards the people
 both during the time of Reza Khan - our fathers had witnessed it and 
they used to narrate it for us - and the recent era when we ourselves 
were in the middle of the arena. Of course, youth have not seen those 
days. There are many reliable sources about what they used to do to the 
people, revolutionary activists and those who even made a small 
criticism. They used to adopt extreme measures, torture the people, 
exert bizarre and strange pressures and put people in startling prisons.
 Some of these prisons exist today and people are greatly shocked when 
they go and visit them.
This was one of the things that they used to do. They used to 
preserve their power by behaving in an oppressive and dictatorial way 
and by exerting pressures on the people. The people who claim to support
 human rights today and who constantly repeat these ignominious claims 
used to support them with all their power. We cannot say that they were 
not aware of their oppressive measures. They were completely aware of 
them. It was the Zionists, the Americans and the CIA that created the 
hellish SAVAK. It was they who taught them their methods. How could they
 not know about it? Recently, it has become clear that they themselves 
have faced great problems because of these organizations. How can we add
 together the recent revelations about the behavior of the intelligence 
service of America towards its opponents and the statements that they 
make about freedom of expression, liberalism, democracy and attention to
 people's opinions? It is a strange world. This was one of the 
characteristics of that malevolent regime in our country: adopting 
extreme measures and showing utmost cruelty towards anyone who made the 
slightest criticism.
The second characteristic was their humiliating dependence on foreign
 powers. Of course, they deny this through the books that they write to 
acquit the evil Pahlavi regime, but it is not deniable. Reza Khan came 
to power at the command of the English. He had no other source of 
support. It was they who brought him to power and it was they who 
brought him down when they deemed it necessary. He came and left at the 
command of the English. Later on, the English brought Mohammad Reza to 
power and they managed to take affairs in their hands until the late 
1320s. From the early 1330s, The Americans entered the arena and took 
all affairs in their hands. Policies were formulated by the Americans. 
Government officials used to do what America's interests dictated, 
whether in their domestic or in their regional and international 
behavior. They used to do exactly what the Americans wanted. This means 
the great humiliation of the people of Iran. This was one of the 
characteristics of that evil regime. This is why the Americans look at 
the people of Iran, the Islamic Revolution and the Islamic Republic with
 such defiance, enmity and grudge. This is because they used to witness 
that era. They have lost such a country and such a system. Therefore, 
their enmity with the Revolution is endless.
The third characteristic of that malevolent regime was corruption: 
different kinds of corruption such as sexual corruption which included 
all courtiers and their companions. The stories about their sexual 
decadence are too embarrassing to mention. In those days, the people 
knew about their sexual corruption, but they did not dare mention it. 
Sometimes, it was leaked through foreigners. They used to say certain 
things about their sexual and financial corruption, not only among 
ordinary officials which can occur at any time, but also in the highest 
levels of the country. Mohammad Reza himself and his close friends were 
involved in the highest levels of financial corruption, in the biggest 
bribes, in the worst transgressions and in the most malevolent pressures
 on the financial resources of the people. They used to accumulate 
wealth for themselves by impoverishing the people.
Promoting corruption - including sexual and financial - and addictive
 and industrial drugs was done by the main elements of Iran's government
 in those days. The Swiss police arrested one of Mohammad Reza's sisters
 at the airport while she was carrying a suitcase full of heroin. The 
news spread throughout the world, but they whitewashed it very soon. 
Well, this disgrace was related to themselves and they covered it up. 
There was such a situation at that time.
Another characteristic of that regime was that it used to ignore the 
people. This was one of the most important characteristics of the 
taghuti regime. The people were not seen at all. During our youth in the
 previous regime, we never participated in an election, nor did we 
witness this from the people on the streets. This is because there was 
no election. Sometimes overtly and sometimes less overtly, they acted on
 their own. That is to say, they used to elect a bunch of mercenaries 
and through them, they made their own decisions in the Majlis and in the
 Senate. The people did not at all know who was in charge of affairs. 
There was no relationship between the people and the government. The 
political awareness that exists among the people today is the exact 
opposite of what existed in those days. That malevolent regime was 
completely separate from the people.
Other characteristics were lack of attention to scientific progress, 
promotion of national timidity and magnification of western culture. 
There was no progress in scientific work and there was no scientific 
movement in the real sense of the word. Through media, they accustomed 
the people to imports and this habit has unfortunately prevailed until 
today. The long-term habits that people acquire are not easily kicked. 
Instead of drawing the country towards reviving domestic production and 
reliance on the true resources of the people, they accustomed the people
 - with oil revenues - to imports. They changed the people's tastes, 
they destroyed agriculture, they destroyed the real and national 
industries of the country and they made the country completely dependent
 on foreigners and the enemies of our people. They humiliated the 
people, they undermined their capabilities by speaking about it and they
 magnified western culture. It was a deceptive and malevolent regime 
which incorporated all kinds of evil.
Well, the people used to feel this. The people of Iran are an 
intelligent people and they understand and feel truths, but this 
requires assistance, a loud cry and a religious heart that can bring 
them to the arena of fighting. Of course, revolutionary activities 
existed in different corners, but bringing the people to the arena was 
the job of a divine man and Allah the Exalted bestowed this divine man 
on the people as a gift. Our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) became the cry that
 contained all the requests of the people. The people responded 
positively to this cry. They laid down their lives, they made sacrifices
 and they entered the arena. They confronted this regime and they 
achieved victory.
The main reason behind the enmity of the enemies towards the Islamic 
government is that in a sensitive area of the world and in a rich 
country which enjoys a very important and strategic location - 
previously they had managed to revive and strengthen in this country an 
installed and corrupt regime which was dependent on themselves - in such
 a country, Islam, the people and popular ideals have replaced them. The
 reason behind their enmity is that the people in this country do not 
pay any attention to the requests of their enemies and that they are 
taking a direction which is the exact opposite of the direction that 
that regime used to take. The greatest service that the Islamic movement
 and the Islamic Revolution rendered was that it saved the people from 
that regime. Everything that has been achieved since then until today - 
national dignity, the great movement of the people, awareness, public 
wisdom, scientific progress, the outstanding position of Iran in the 
world and in the region and everything else - is because of the fact 
that that great obstacle was removed for the people. And this was done 
by the people themselves, by religion and by religious beliefs.
Today, the camp of arrogance is opposing and making efforts against 
this government. No one should think that the enemy will forget about 
its enmity because this is not the case. When you are strong and 
prepared and when you know the enemy and his plots, he will have no 
choice but to stop his enmity. But when you show negligence and trust 
the enemy, he will find the opportunity to follow his goals in the 
country. The pressure that is exerted by arrogance on the people of Iran
 originates from this great and endless enmity. Their enmity is endless.
The people of Iran have resisted and stood up against this enmity, 
they have preserved the Islamic Republic and they are moving towards 
ideals. Despite the wrong and miscalculated statements that are 
sometimes made about the people of Iran's failure to achieve anything on
 this path, they have made great achievements until today. The people of
 Iran have taken the path in a very good way, they have managed to 
resist the pressures of the enemy, they have managed to preserve 
themselves, they have managed to achieve growth and they have managed to
 get close to ideals.
We have said many times that we have not managed to grant Islam's 
requests completely. This is definite, but we have taken a long path in 
this regard. We have not been able to completely administer social 
justice in this country, but we have come a long way. These things 
should not be ignored. One day, the entire wealth of this country used 
to be divided among some aristocratic families and its spillover reached
 a few big cities. Today, all the areas in this country are benefiting 
from its resources. This great movement towards social justice and 
Islamic morality exists. We sometimes hear that there are some 
criticisms about morality. There is no doubt that today, we are far away
 from idealistic Islamic morality, but we have moved forward to a great 
extent. The people of Iran have come a long way on this path. These 
things should not be ignored.
Some people deny scientific progress in a silly way. Why do you do 
this? Our people have made scientific progress. This is not simply our 
claim. Our enemies and international scientific centers are testifying 
this. Now, imagine that some people deny these achievements and 
humiliate the people of Iran. This is wrong. Failure to see the great 
movement and progress that the holy Islamic government has achieved for 
this country is not fair and it is wrong. Of course, we have a long way 
ahead of us. We have not achieved our ideals yet. Islamic ideals are far
 beyond these things.
The same movement existed in the early Islamic era. At that time too,
 they were in the middle of the way. You should not think that in the 
early Islamic era and during the time of the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) and 
his successors, the people reached the peak of Islamic ideals. This was 
not the case. The important thing for a country is to start moving 
forward. Our people are moving forward. Therefore, it should not be 
spoiled by wrong statements. They should not do something to raise 
doubts in the people about the great movement that they have begun. Our 
people have moved forward and great feats have been accomplished. This 
is what the entire world is testifying. Those who come from other 
countries are testifying this. It is not only us who praise the people 
of Iran. Our opponents and enemies have done so as well. The people of 
Iran are being praised for their power, their resistance, their talents 
and the great achievements that they have made on this path. They admire
 the people of Iran.
Today, the first thing that is necessary for our people is national 
unity and solidarity. Creating division among the people, separating 
them from one another and chanting those slogans which create discord 
are wrong under any name. This is against the interests of the people of
 Iran. This is against the ideals of the people of Iran. The first thing
 that is necessary is unity and solidarity. The people should help 
officials and the administration.
Government officials too should know that reliance on domestic power 
and the power of the people is what can enable them to carry out their 
responsibility. I have always said to executive officials in public and 
private meetings that they should not pin their hopes on foreigners. It 
is evident that today, the enemies have created problems for the people 
of Iran by imposing sanctions. Well, if their condition for lifting 
sanction is something that your sense of commitment does not allow you 
to do, what will you do? If they say, "The condition for lifting 
sanction is that you abandon Islam, independence, scientific movement 
and such and such a glorious phenomenon" what will you do? You will 
definitely not accept it. Without a doubt, no official in the country 
agrees with abandoning such and such a major and idealistic value so 
that they lift sanctions. Of course in the present time, the enemy does 
not confront our ideals in an outspoken way. But if we retreat, it 
confronts them in an outspoken way as well. In the present time, it is 
not the case that the enemy confronts our values in an outspoken way and
 imposes conditions on them. However, we should be vigilant.
We should understand what the purpose of the enemy's offers, 
statements and moves is. Well, it is clear that no official likes to 
compromise with the enemies and to abandon ideals so that sanctions can 
be lifted or decreased. Well, now that this is the case, you should do 
something to make the country become immune to sanctions. This is the 
meaning of the economy of resistance. Imagine that the enemy's condition
 for lifting sanctions is something which you cannot agree with. Look at
 the issue in this way. Under such circumstances, you should do 
something to counteract sanctions. We have said many times that you 
should do something to reduce the country's dependence on oil as much as
 you can. In the present time, you can witness that in a short time, 
they have halved the price of oil. When we are dependent on oil, we face
 problems. This should be thought about. One of the greatest 
responsibilities of the officials of the country is to do something to 
prevent the progress of the country and the welfare of the people from 
receiving any harm if the enemy does not want to lift sanctions.
What is the way to do this? The way to do this is to rely on the 
inside and to benefit from the domestic forces of the country. There are
 certain ways. Experts and sympathetic individuals testify that there 
are certain ways for people to rely on themselves. This is the 
responsibility of executive officials and other officials of the 
country. They should not pin their hopes on foreigners. Foreigners 
sometimes like to exert pressures. The more you retreat, the more they 
step forward. If you take a step back, they take a step forward. 
Arrogance is not a system which is based on mercy, fairness, human 
values and consideration. The more you step back, the more they step 
forward. You should think of a fundamental solution for this.
And the fundamental solution is that you should act in a way that the
 country will not be harmed by the enemy's frown and sanctions. There 
are certain ways to achieve this. There are certain tasks that can be 
carried out. Of course, officials have carried out some of these tasks 
and they have paid off. It is possible to do certain things. It is 
possible to take this solution away from the enemy. Otherwise, if we are
 afraid that the enemy might say, "If you do not do this, sanctions will
 not be lifted", [then our efforts are useless]. In the present time, 
the Americans say with complete shamelessness, "Even if Iran makes 
compromises on the nuclear issue, sanctions will not be lifted 
altogether and at the same time". They are saying this openly. This 
shows that this enemy cannot be trusted.
I am not against negotiations. They can negotiate as long as they 
want, but I believe that we should rely on real sources of hope, not 
hollow and imaginary ones. This is what is necessary. Well, the 
officials of the country are thankfully busy working. They are trying 
and working hard. I believe that everyone should help organizations in 
charge. Everyone should help the administration because the task is 
difficult and demanding. Executive officials too should be careful. They
 should not create division among the people and they should not create 
uproar. Unnecessary statements should not be made. The solidarity, firm 
determination and faith of our people should be benefited in the right 
way. I hope that by Allah's favor, the path of this country will open 
up.
I will tell you that as we are significantly different from the first
 day of the Revolution - we have moved forward to a great extent and we 
are much better than what we were 10, 20 years ago - the people of Iran 
will definitely take this glorious path on a daily basis. By Allah's 
favor and grace, the people of Iran and you youth will witness the day 
when your arrogant, bullying, oppressive and rude enemies will have to 
show humility before you.
God's mercy be upon our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) who showed us the 
path of resistance, reliance on God and wisdom. God's mercy be upon our 
dear martyrs who moved on this path and God's mercy be upon you dear 
ones, youth and motivated individuals who have continued this path until
 today.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

