
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Address to Hajj Pilgrimage Executives"/>
Ayatollah Khamenei further referred to the sanctity and grandeur of the sacred months of Zil-Qa'dah, Zil-Hajjah and Muharram. He pointed out that the period in which the hajj rituals are performed marks the peak of this grandeur, and that the presence of hajjis in Mecca, which is the Islamic world's center of monotheism, is one of the greatest blessings of these sacred months.
The Leader also stated:
"The performance of the hajj rituals is an exceptional obligatory act in Islam. It is a sincere act of worship that the pilgrims perform en masse and together. 
"It is true that in Islam there are various acts of worship such as the congregational prayers, the Friday prayers, the Eid-ul-Adha prayers or the Eid-ul-Fitr prayers that Muslims perform together. Nevertheless, the great and magnificent gathering of Muslims of different colors and races and from every corner of the Islamic world during the hajj season is very meaningful.
"This magnificent gathering makes it clear that from the viewpoint of Islam, it is not only necessary for Muslims to be united in the field of politics or in the arena of struggle against the enemies of Islam, but it is also important for them to perform the acts of worship, especially the hajj rituals, together.
"This is why Almighty Allah says in the holy Qur'an: 'And hold fast to the covenant of Allah all together...' (3:103)
"This verse indicates that holding fast to the covenant of Allah by oneself is not good enough, but that Muslims are expected to do so all together. In other words, what is important for Muslims is to close ranks and be united."
Elsewhere in his remarks, Ayatollah Khamenei noted:
"The circumambulation of the hajj pilgrims is a symbol of monotheism. It means that all the activities, endeavors and goals of Muslims should revolve around monotheism and divine unity.
"The Islamic ummah should try to make the most of its opportunities in order to attain the status which the holy Qur'an has envisaged for Muslims:
'And be not slack so as to cry for peace, and you have the upper hand...' (47:35)
'And be not infirm, and be not grieving, and you have the upper hand...' (3:139) 
"In these verses, Almighty Allah says that Muslims have the upper hand, but of course this is not because of their race or their special relationship to the Almighty, as no one has any special relationship to Allah, but this is because of their religion, a religion which is able to lead mankind to salvation, perfection and prosperity. Muslims have the upper hand because of their strong faith and religious belief, a belief that is able to annihilate tyrants and satanic powers, as it has done so in the past." 
Leader of the Islamic Republic went on to say:
"The holy Qur'an is capable of guiding mankind and elevating him from a level described as 'Most surely man is in loss' (103:2) to a level characterized as 'O man! Surely you must strive (to attain) to your Lord, a hard striving until you meet Him.' (84:6)
"The hajj pilgrimage has its roots in the holy Qur'an. The strong faith and firm belief of the devout Muslims in the course of the history of Islam has also originated from this holy book. This faith and belief is a great divine asset, and it should be highly valued."
Referring to the present condition of the Islamic world, Ayatollah Khamenei noted: 
"Today, the Islamic world is suffering because of disregarding this great asset. You can see how the arrogant powers are currently treating the Muslim nations in the Middle East. They are committing the most heinous crimes against the innocent Palestinian people. They are hatching diabolic plots against the Iraqi nation, and they are dreaming of seizing the national wealth and taking control of the natural resources of the Muslim nations in this region.
"The Islamic Ummah will be able to foil the evil plots of the arrogant powers and the enemies of Islam if Muslims use their precious asset in an appropriate manner, namely if they hold fast to the covenant of Allah all together. Achieving this goal may seem difficult, but it is not impossible. All ideals and objectives, including this goal, could be accomplished through awareness, firmness and perseverance.
"The hajj pilgrimage provides Muslims with a good opportunity to exchange views and become informed of the latest developments in the Islamic world and the major problems besetting the Muslim nations. The great gathering of Muslims in Mecca during the hajj season also shows that Islam is a source of power and dignity for the Islamic ummah."
In conclusion, Leader of the Islamic Republic stated:
"I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow His grace, mercy and blessings on all the dear brothers and sisters who are at the service of the pilgrims, especially the venerable executives in charge of the hajj pilgrimage who really take pains to solve the problems related to the pilgrimage. I also pray to Almighty Allah to grant you all more success in fulfilling your heavy duties." 
