
<meta year="2003" title="Leader's Speech to a Group of People from Qom "/>
Further in his remarks, Ayatollah Khamenei referred to some major and decisive events in the history of the Islamic Revolution, such as the epic uprising of the people in the city of Qom against the despotic Pahlavi regime on January 9, 1979, or the brutal attack by the agents of the former regime on Faiziyah Theological School in Qom on March 22, 1962, which left a large number of innocent theology students killed or severely injured.
He stressed that these events were turning points in the Islamic movement of the Iranian people and their struggle against the corrupt Pahlavi regime, adding that they were also major factors that contributed to the ultimate victory of the Islamic Revolution. 
Elsewhere in his statements, Leader of the Islamic Republic noted:
"All those nations that suffer from injustice and yearn for justice and equity, all those nations that are tormented by an stifling atmosphere under autocracy and dictatorship have expressed a deep love for our Islamic Revolution, a revolution which put an end to the tyrannical and despotic rule in this country and restored the honor and dignity of our great nation.
"The devotees of the Islamic Revolution are not merely those who were present at the time of the victory of our revolution. The pious, intellectual and broad-minded youth of the present and future generations are also the devotees of the revolution, since our revolution is an eternal truth that will always remain alive. The revolution has raised the banner of Islam, justice, liberty, independence and dignity in our country. Therefore, it will always have devotees and followers from among the devout, intellectual and broad-minded individuals."
However, Ayatollah Khamenei pointed out that since the Islamic Revolution is an eternal and progressive entity, it also has certain enemies.
"The Islamic Revolution is faced with two enemies: The first one is the internal enemy, which is even more dangerous than the external enemy. Seeking sensual pleasures, trying to amass a fortune, prioritizing factional rather than national interests or becoming dispirited, intimidated or deceived by the external enemy are the different manifestations of our internal enemy.
"The second enemy of the Islamic Revolution is the external enemy, namely the arrogant, expansionist and domination-seeking powers that are ready to wage bloody wars and kill thousands of innocent people in the world just to further their own interests. Today, the bullying and intimidation on the part of the arrogant powers, especially the U.S. threats against Iraq, are all clear signs of the domination-seeking goals and expansionist policies of these powers," he noted.
The Leader further stated that, today, the international community is well aware of the evil objectives that the arrogant powers led by the United States are seeking to achieve under the pretext of promoting democracy or fighting terrorism in the world.
"On the pretext of fighting terrorism, the United States aims to wage wars in the world in order to promote its own interests. However, the international community is strongly opposed to the belligerent policies of the White House officials, and massive demonstrations are currently being held in many countries across the world in protest against the U.S. policies, especially against any probable U.S. attack on Iraq.
"This is because nations have realized that by attacking Iraq under the pretext of fighting terrorism, the United States actually intends to take control of the Iraqi oilfields, dominate the Middle East and protect the Zionist entity," he said. 
Elsewhere in his statements, Ayatollah Khamenei noted:
"Today, different countries and nations, including most of the Arab states, have realized that even if the United States smiles at them, there is nothing but malice and ill will behind that smile! This is the reason why the whole Islamic world and all the Muslim nations are opposed to the U.S. presence in this region.
"The U.S. officials are currently deploying their military forces to this region because they think that they can easily occupy Iraq, take control of its oilfields and plunder its wealth and natural resources. But they are mistaken, as they will not be able to achieve this goal! They might be able to station their forces in this region, but the Muslim nations will never let them heave a sigh of relief!"
In conclusion, Leader of the Islamic Republic called on the Iranian nation to make every endeavor to keep the flag of Islam hoisted in this country.
"The Islamic world expects us, the Iranian nation, to make an effort to keep the flag of Islam hoisted in this country, since this flag is indeed a source of honor and dignity for the whole Muslim ummah. As long as the flag of Islam flies in this country, it inspires and revitalizes other Muslim nations and raises their morale and spirits.
"In general, any nation that adheres to Islam will become revitalized, honored and dignified. In other words, nations will be able to free themselves from the clutches of the arrogant powers and do away with their humiliating political and cultural dominance by acting upon the Islamic teachings," he stated.
