
<meta year="2016" title="Thankfully Today the Country Benefits from a Solid Security Shield: Imam Khamenei"/>

All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings be upon our Master Muhammad and upon his immaculate household
I would like to congratulate the honorable members of the cabinet, the esteemed President, his vice presidents, the honorable ministers and all members of the executive branch throughout the country on the occasion of Government Week. I hope that God will reward all you for the efforts that you have made and that He renders blessings and goodness on these efforts, God willing.
I would like to commemorate our dear martyrs Rajai and Bahonar. As the gentleman in the meeting pointed out, these two personalities were really role models in different ways - in terms of sincerity and diligence. Of course, they did not have the opportunity to continue their work for a few more years, but "Spring-time shows whether a year will be auspicious or not" [a common saying in Farsi]. The kind of work that they did ensured that things would definitely move forward - particularly the late Rajai whose work lasted longer. This was because of their sincerity, enthusiasm, love of the people, diligence and the like.
May God damn the hypocritical and criminal hands who shed the blood of these two dear individuals. Unfortunately today, some western policies are trying to exonerate these notorious individuals. They are trying to portray munafeqeen as innocent and to create an atmosphere of innocence for them. Of course, they will fail. These are individuals who murdered thousands of people inside the country- from public and Friday prayer leaders, businesspeople, young students and Islamic Revolution Guards Corps to families who were sitting at home eating the iftar meal, the heads of the country like Shahid Beheshti, the outstanding personalities of those days, these two great personalities, and many others who reached thousands in number - I do not know the exact figure.
This is while evil and malicious hands in the world of politics - whether those outside the country or their followers and lovers inside the country - want to purify these terrorists, portray them as decent and innocent individuals and to damage the reputation of our blessed and enlightened Imam (r.a.). Imam's (r.a.) reputation cannot be damaged. Thus, they have been unsuccessful until today and they will continue to be unsuccessful in the future.
On this occasion, I deem it necessary to thank the efforts of the administration. The reports that the gentlemen delivered were very good, including the reports delivered by Mr. President, the honorable First Vice President and other ministers and vice presidents. There were very positive and good points in these reports. It will be good to reflect these reports in the real sense of the word so that the people hear about the administration's performance. As was mentioned in the meeting, our main resource and capital are the people. The people's trust and hope help all administrations. We need this. By Allah's favor, this task [reflecting the reports] should be done by the national media and others so that the people hear about it. I thank you gentlemen for the efforts that you have made.
Managing the country is a difficult task. That a number of positive tasks have been carried out does not mean that there are not any shortcomings, problems and weaknesses in different areas. There are some problems, but managing the country is not an easy job. I remember that sometimes some people went to Imam (r.a.) and complained about different areas and the like. In response, Imam (r.a.) would always say something: "Managing the country is a difficult task." For him, it was enough to say this. This is really the case. I myself have been president. I know this. And after my presidency, I have been in touch with executive tasks. This is really difficult.
Naturally, the variety and wide spectrum of tasks, reasonable and sometimes unreasonable - this is sometimes the case - expectations throughout the country, and the obstacles that have remained since the time of taghut and that have increased in number over the course of time make the task difficult. There are some weaknesses, but the tasks that are being carried out are valuable tasks. In this meeting, I will refer to the measures and tasks that I think should be implemented. I will raise certain points in different categories and areas.
Well, time goes by very quickly. I think that this is the fourth meeting that we have had with you this year. It looks like the first meeting was held just yesterday. This is how days pass. This is how life passes. It passes very quickly. Therefore, we should make the most of these hours and days. In the first year of all administrations - including Dr. Rouhani's administration - I have said that one's term of responsibility comes to an end in the twinkling of an eye. Nonetheless, four years is not a short time. For example, in history we have one Amir Kabir, with that brilliant performance, who held his position for almost three years. Therefore, three years and other such periods of time is a long time. Four years is not a short time.
The same is true of the remaining year - the year that is left of the administration's life. One year is one year. One can really work and think for each and every day of it. I request that these opportunities are grasped and that the gentlemen work until the last day. You should not think that the life of this administration will come to an end soon and that it is not clear whether you will keep your positions or not. You should not think like this at all. You should make efforts and work hard until the last moment, the last hour and the last day.
You should not get involved in peripheral issues either. I am saying this because the upcoming months are months that are gradually accompanied by electoral challenges. In the following months, electoral campaigns and discussions and political issues will keep coming up. Opponents will say something and proponents will say something else. These things should not make you busy. You should not pay any attention to such issues and you should do your job. The best promotion for an administration that holds office is its action. This means that even if you say thousands of words in your promotions and if you present only one good task, that good task will influence the people more than those thousands of words. So, if the people see, feel and touch your work this will be the best promotion for the administration. You should not think of getting involved in peripheral tasks.
Government Week is a good opportunity in itself for both the outstanding personalities who are outside the administration and for the individuals who are inside it. It will be a good opportunity for them to make an evaluation of themselves and their work: "Nay, man will be evidence against himself" [The Holy Quran, 75: 14]. All heads of organizations can make an evaluation of their work better than others. When it comes to words, we might sometimes say something and make a claim - this is talking anyway - but when we take a look at ourselves, we might not be satisfied. So, this self-evaluation is very important. The same is true of those outstanding personalities who are outside the administration. They look at the administration's measures as well. There is no harm in making criticisms. This is alright, but criticisms should be fair. Criticism means presenting the problem and the solution, and untying the knots. Correct criticism is this. In my opinion, if this is done, it will be very good.
I would like to stress and repeat that you should explain to the people and to outstanding personalities the tasks that have been carried out without any exaggeration and embellishment. Realism influences the people. This is undoubtedly the case.
I have written down some issues to discuss. Of course, there were certain points - related to these issues - in the statements that the gentlemen made.

The first is about economic issues, as was pointed out. In my opinion, today the first issue of the country is the issue of the economy, economic issues and economic problems and knots. These issues should be resolved. Dr. Jahangiri delivered a good report about the command center of the economy of resistance. He says that his powers on the matter have not increased. This is really not good news for me. I expect that he commands in the real sense of the word. Well, Mr. President really trusts him. I too believe in him. Therefore, it will be good if he commands in the real sense of the word. There are certain points - about the tasks that have been carried out - that I will discuss later on. I took a look at this report. The report is a good report: it says that there are about two hundred projects, packages and plans to support production, and that 2,500 unfinished tasks have been entrusted to the private sector. These are issues which have been mentioned in the report and which are important. These are tasks that are presentable. However, there are a few points:
The first point is about following up projects so that they will definitely be carried out. Notice that we make a decision, we announce it to organizations and we place great emphasis on it, but if we do not cross the finish line and if we do not do something to make the water that flows from the spring get to the farm, the task will not be over. The task will be over when each and every task and project that he and his colleagues in the administration have carried out will produce results. In other words, they should follow up the matter and pursue things step by step. This is the first matter which I believe is very important and which should be carried out, God willing.
The second point is that there are extensive activities in the country in the arena of the economy - whether in the private or governmental sector. The country is engaged in great activities. It is brimming with economic activities. Officials should do their best to coordinate these activities with the policies on the economy of resistance. If there is an activity that is not in line with these policies, they should stop it. This is really one of the most fundamental tasks.
In the real arena of the economy - the real economy - many tasks are being carried out. Well, some of these tasks are and some are not compatible with these policies. Those which are compatible should be promoted and those which are not should be stopped, or at least they should not be assisted. The least is that such tasks should not be assisted and supported. In one, two cases, I had Mr. Hejazi deliver a message and ask [government officials] what the position of such and such a task is in the policies on the economy of resistance. This should be justifiable. This means that each and every task that is being carried out should have a place in the policies that he and the whole administration have formulated.
The third task is that all the capacities of the country should be brought into the arena. Of course, they fortunately mentioned this. Recently, we have had a meeting with Mr. Hujjati [the Minister of Agricultural Jihad]. As for Mr. Nematzadeh [the Minister of Industries and Business], whose statements are published in the press and the like: we did not benefit from the statements of these two personalities. There are really many capacities that should be brought into the arena, particularly in the area of industries and agriculture. Our capacities are extraordinary. There is one point about agriculture and the issue of forests that I will discuss with Mr. Hujjati later on. By Allah's favor, I will discuss this matter with him in private.
The fourth point is creating a discourse. Notice that the issue of science, knowledge-based economy and companies and other such issues was highlighted and emphasized in the statements of Dr. Sattari - some other friends too referred to these issues as well. This originates from a 10, 12-year discourse. In other words, when the issue of breaking the scientific front lines, the software movement and knowledge production is brought up and discussed in universities and when it turns into a discourse, the result will be that when I sometimes sit here to listen to the statements of academic personalities - whether students or professors - I see that they speak about the same things that we have introduced and that they mention them as demands. This is a discourse. Creating a discourse is good. This is good.
When this is done, then scientific achievements will be made. Today, we have made many important achievements in the area of aerospace, the nuclear energy, nanotechnology, biotechnology and many different other areas. These achievements result from discourse creation. When a discourse is created, everyone will think of the matter and everyone will become motivated, just like the time when a highway is built which makes everyone interested in taking it. So, discourse creation is very important. Of course, no discourse is created if we only repeat the words, "the economy of resistance". We should not repeat this word so frequently that it loses its effect, rather we should clarify and explain the matter.
The next point is that - I am addressing this to Mr. Jahangiri - what is expected in the economy of resistance is taking a leap. Notice that the executive branch and the administration have certain routine and ordinary duties in economic areas - in all the different divisions of these multi-layer economic ministries. However, these tasks should be carried out in the ordinary course of events. What is expected in the area of the economy of resistance is doing extraordinary work and taking a leap.
For example - I have written this down - when Mr. President said that they would launch 7,000 industrial units, this is good. This is one of those extraordinary tasks. You should follow up this task. He said that they would launch 7,000 industrial units. Very well, this is good. This is beyond the ordinary and routine tasks that our organizations carry out. You should pursue those tasks that will help us take a leap and that involve achievements beyond the ordinary things because they are very good. This is another point: you should not become satisfied with the daily routines that economic organizations do. You should ask them to carry out such tasks.
Another point in the area of economic matters is about the tasks which are deep-rooted, but which are possible. They are not difficult tasks.
For example, distributing decision-making in provinces - which was pointed out in the meeting and which is being thought about fortunately - is a good task. You should decentralize decision-making and you should distribute it in provinces. Another task is directing banking resources towards production. On that day, I said to the honorable Minister of Economy [Ali Tayyibnia] and Mr. Seif [Director of Central Bank] that they should employ all their knowledge and whatever they have learned so that they can channel this huge amount of cash towards production. All your skill should be utilized on this path. If this is done, it will be very important. In my opinion, this is possible. It is possible for the gentlemen who are at the top of affairs to do so.
Another task is to provide export incentives. Sometimes, we have incentives, but there is no stability in them. They increase and decrease in number and they undergo many changes. Those who are involved in exports are not hopeful. Their hearts tremble with fear because the issue of exports is a very serious and very important issue. Therefore, the incentives for this task should be provided. Another issue is to pay the fee for agricultural products on time. This is a very important issue.
Combating smuggling in a serious way - the issue of destroying smuggled products - is very important. Of course, a number of those individuals who are in touch with such matters have said to us that some of these products can be re-exported. That is to say, it is possible to return and to export them. Very well, I have no objections to this. I am announcing this now. When I say that they should definitely destroy those products - the smuggled products - this does not include petty smuggling and the products that backpackers and the like carry, rather I mean the gangs that are involved in big smuggling and the ones that influence the country's market.
As for the issue of bureaucracy, this is an old issue which I do not want to repeat. Sometimes, bureaucracy becomes so serious that entrepreneurs and investors become bored and restless so much so that they lose their interest and enthusiasm to work.
Another issue is supporting knowledge-based economy in a serious way. Thankfully, Mr. Sattari acknowledged in one sense - it was acknowledgement in one sense - that everyone is helping him. There is really a need for help. Everyone should help the scientific deputy. All organizations should help. Now, if it is really the case that everyone is helping you, then it is necessary for us to thank God. We should take the issue of knowledge-based economy seriously. We should take knowledge-based companies seriously. Perhaps, it can be said that in the present time there are millions of youth in the country who are prepared to work. If they are assisted, they can really move forward in the arena of knowledge-based economy and they can activate different areas.
I have heard that some governmental divisions accept "projects" - as the gentlemen in the meeting put it - from foreigners and they give them resources, but they do not give these projects to domestic knowledge-based companies which can carry out this task. If - by Allah's favor - Mr. President pursues this matter, it will be good. These are reports that have been delivered to us. I hope that they are wrong, but these are reports that exist. In my opinion, this issue should be pursued and followed up because it is important. This was about knowledge-based economy. Another issue is the issue of villages. There are many things to be said in this regard, but there is no time to discuss it.
Another issue that I want to discuss is the issue of foreign policy. Well, this issue has been one of the priorities of Dr. Rouhani's administration since the beginning, both in its promotions and in its actions and measures. This has been an important task. I agree with this as well. Since long ago, I have believed in diplomatic activity and work and I have believed that this area should be worked on.
There are a few points in this regard: one is that we should distribute our diplomatic power throughout the world in the correct manner. That is to say, the share of Asia should be given to it in line with its expansion and capability. The same is true of the share of Africa and Latin America. Therefore, we should distribute our diplomacy efficiently and appropriately.
Another issue is that we should adopt an active position in the area of diplomacy everywhere in the world. Especially when it comes to issues like regional issues, it is very necessary for us to enter the arena in a careful, intelligent, powerful, active and influential manner. Thankfully, we have entered the arena like this in some cases. This is because today, regional issues are very complicated issues. The issues of our region - the issues of Syria, Iraq, Lebanon and North Africa, and in the east: the issues of Afghanistan, Pakistan and other such countries - are extraordinarily complicated issues. The policies in the region are interwoven and hostile and they influence each other.
The third point in the area of diplomatic issues is about utilizing diplomatic capacities for the economy. Economic organizations should constantly interact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the area of economic issues. Did we not speak about transferring advanced technology from such and such a country? Did we not speak about exporting products to such and such a country? And do we not place emphasis on exportation? Well, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should play a pivotal role in these areas.
We have seen and heard about certain cases in which a ministry goes and engages in economic negotiations with a certain country without the Ministry of Foreign Affairs being aware of it at all. This is harmful. This is pure loss. Of course, this is a bilateral responsibility. Organizations are responsible towards cooperating with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the area of the economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs too should sit and plan for this. It should plan for this and activate this area in a special division and board. Of course, there is apparently an economic division in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this task. It has been there since the past. This is another issue. What can be trusted in the area of diplomacy is steady, definite, signed and justifiable work. This is important when it comes to our interactions with foreign countries. So, this should be worked on with great care.
Of course, the issue of the Bar-Jaam [JCPOA] is one of the areas of foreign policy. Because I have spoken a lot about the issue of the Bar-Jaam, I do not want to discuss it again. I have almost always spoken and continue to speak to Dr. Rouhani - the honorable President - about this issue.
In any case, on the issue of the Bar-Jaam, the point that I want to raise is that first we should take into account the other side's untrustworthiness - particularly that of America. We should not at all try to somehow justify the other side's untrustworthiness, deviousness and treachery. He is going back on his promises. In the present time, this is clear. The Americans are breaking their promises. We should take this into account and we should pay attention to it.
And second, we should gain experience. It is possible that the present or another administration in America and in such and such a country gives us a promise and makes a claim. We know that we cannot trust this promise in any way! Very well, if he gives a promise, you can give him a promise as well. A person had composed a poem. He sent a message to the caliph and went to him to recite his poem. The caliph ordered that they give him such and such an amount of gold - it was worth a hundred thousand dinars for example. He wrote his edict on paper, gave it to the poet and said to him, "Go and get it." He went to the treasurer, gave him the piece of paper and said, "Give me a hundred thousand." The treasurer said, "For what?" The poet said, "I have composed a poem". The treasurer answered, "So what? You have just composed a poem and he liked it. He too gave you this piece of paper and you liked it, tit for tat- now get up and go" [Audience laugh].
This is how things are. He says something and gives a promise so that we like it. We too should give him a promise so that he likes. However, we should not give him anything in cash lest we wonder if he responds and pays it back or not. This should not be the case.
In any case, we thank those individuals who really worked day and night in the area of the Bar-Jaam. I have certain criticisms about the Bar-Jaam and I have some objections to it. And I have mentioned it, both to you and in public. However, this objection is directed at the other side, not to our side. This objection is not directed at our own officials because our officials made their efforts and did their best. It is the other side that is vicious and treacherous.
The third issue is the issue of science and technology. Well, for the sake of the progress of the country, we really need the issue of the science and technology to become highlighted in the country. One of the three main issues and three main foundations on which the country is based today is the issue of science and technology. Perhaps, this issue is the deepest of the three. Thankfully, we have made good achievements in this regard. Certain efforts have been made, some tasks have been carried out and this issue has been followed up, but the rate of our progress has decreased. Dr. Farhadi [the Minister of Science, Research and Technology] has sent me a report - previously, I had said in one of my speeches that the rate of our scientific progress has decreased - saying that our growth is good. I have no objections and I am aware of this. What he sent was not new to me. What I said - which was ignored - was related to the rate of growth.
Notice that we are far behind the opposing sides and our rivals. If we want to catch up with them but move forward at the same speed that they are moving forward at, this distance will always remain there. We should move forward at a speed and rate which is several times faster than theirs so that we can catch up or possibly overtake them. This is what I am saying. We had this rate of growth for several years. When the rate of growth increases, this is ideal. However, this rate of growth has decreased. This is what I am saying. This is what Dr. Farhadi should pay attention to. In any case, this is what I am concerned about. You should accelerate this growth, otherwise I know that growth already exists.
Well, we are growing and moving forward. This is natural, but ordinary growth is not enough. It was our rate of growth that became well-known in the world, that was reflected everywhere and that made some people jealous. Some people became worried! Some people in the world became worried about our scientific progress. Well, this was because our rate of progress was good. As for the issue of knowledge-based companies, we discussed this issue.
Thankfully, the scientific deputy is satisfied. I have written down that it is not supported by organizations. However, he says that they are being supported. Very well, if you are pleased, why should we speak about it? Our issue is your issue.
And the discourse of scientific progress should continue. You should not let this stop. All of you friends are academic personalities. First of all, my advice is that you friends in charge of different organizations should not break off your relationship with universities. You should interact with universities wherever you are and in whatever ways you can. Whenever you meet with an academic group, you should place great emphasis on the discourse of knowledge production, scientific progress, the software movement and the rate of growth. You should act in a way that every professor, student and researcher feels that they are the ones who should carry out the task. This is another point about this issue.
Another point is about the research budget. First, the research budget is low and second, even that much is not paid completely. Of course, we extracted a promise from one of the administrations - I do not remember which gentleman gave that promise - that they would increase the research budget to one and a half, two, and at most three percent. However, they promised that they would at least make it one and a half. Later on, academic personalities came and delivered some speeches here. They said, "What are you saying? The research budget is 0.5, 0.6 percent and they are not paying all of it either." So, things should change in a way that the research budget is fully paid.
Another issue is the issue of the cooperation between universities and industries. I have been stressing this issue since many years ago. I have placed great emphasis on this issue. May God bestow His mercy on her father - the late Dr. Ebtekar. He came here and I said to him that I have asked this of the president. He said, "Great, this is our main solution." He said that this is the main issue. However, he did not live long enough [to pursue the matter]. May God bestow His mercy on the late Ebtekar.
In any case, this is important. Incentives should be provided for both sides: for those industries that spend money on research - after all when an industry wants to benefit from academic research, it spends some money and therefore, you should take this spending into account either through tax exemptions or through other concessions - and for research centers and research-oriented universities. These two sides should be encouraged to establish close relations with each other.
Another issue that I want to discuss is the issue of security. Well, thankfully today, the country benefits from a solid security shield. Take a look at countries surrounding us and see what is going on. Countries to the east of our country are Afghanistan - with those conditions - Pakistan and the like. In the west, the neighboring Arab countries - Iraq, Syria and Yemen - border our country. And in this region - West Asia - appalling events are taking place. Another example is the events that are taking place in countries located in our region - such as Libya, Egypt and other such countries. When we take a look at these countries, we understand what a great blessing this security that we thankfully benefit from today is.
This security shield has fortunately covered the entire country and therefore, we are immune from the detriments that insecurity can cause. The people live comfortably in terms of security. In my opinion, this is one of the things that the honorable officials can discuss with the people in their speeches so that they can keep this in mind. "There are two blessings which are unrecognized: health and security" [Speaking in Arabic]. So, one is security. As long as security exists, no one is aware of it. Imagine what happens if there is insecurity when you want to go from your home to your workplace, school and university and from a city to another city. Thankfully, security exists in the country today and this is because of the efforts that our military and security forces have made. We should really thank and strengthen them.
In my opinion, there are three factors which play a role in this security: one is our national defensive wall which is the foundation of the work. The revolutionary and religious spirit of the people is one of the three main factors in preserving the security of the country. It is really the revolutionary and religious spirit of the people that emboldens and encourages our forces to fulfill their duties in the correct manner. This is one factor that should be preserved.
Another factor is related to our organizational work - our military and security organizations. These organizations should be encouraged, praised and assisted because they are really working hard.
Another factor is related to our technological tools and instruments. One example is the tasks that are being carried out such as the missile that was observed by Dr. Rouhani a few days ago. These tools are important. They are very important because they are very efficient in preserving the security of the country. It is very important for the country to able to defend itself and to let others know that this defensive power exists in the country.
Notice what uproar they created on the issue of the S-300 that we wanted to buy and what measures they adopted after that! They travelled so many times to Russia - they went to that country many times and they adopted various measures. This is while the S-300 is not made to strike any city, rather their function is to strike aggressors. This is how things are. In other words, the enemy cannot bear our country having a defensive power. He cannot bear to see you have defensive power.
Therefore, one of the most fundamental tasks is to strengthen our defensive tools. If each of these three factors - the spirit of the people, the preservation and empowerment of the organizations that preserve security, and tools and instruments - is weakened, this will be to our disadvantage and anyone who weakens them, they have really acted to the disadvantage of the country.
The fifth issue is the issue of culture. A priority which is very important for the country is culture. Culture includes literature, art, lifestyle, public and social behavior and conduct. It includes all these things. We have certain obligations and responsibilities in these areas. Our cultural organizations are really responsible in this regard. Notice what happens if there is no supervision over - for example - theater and cinema. I am not an advocate of fanaticism, pressure and suppression in these areas. You know that. On the contrary, I firmly believe in the freedom of thought. However, freedom of thought is different from decadence! It is different from allowing the enemy to damage the country through the hallway of freedom of thought and freedom of action.
Today, our religious and revolutionary youth are carrying out the largest number of good tasks in the country. These knowledge-based companies and different tasks and activities are being carried out mostly by religious youth. Now, imagine that a movie or play is produced which uproots the faith of these youth. Is this good? Is this not something that makes one feel endangered? There are two issues involved here: one is offense and another is defense. On the issue of culture, we have had a poor performance both in offense and in defense. In my opinion, we should work on these areas. The kind of culture which is combined with religion and the Revolution is the basis of our work and we should really attend to it.
Cultural products include books, cinema, theater, poetry, the press and also cultural personalities. Take the case of a cultural personality who has spent his entire life serving the Revolution. And there is another cultural personality who has stung the Revolution whenever he could. How do you behave towards these two individuals? How do you - who are government and cultural officials, and officials in the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance, the Ministry of Science, and the Islamic Promotion Organization: this is not particular to governmental positions and this holds true for others as well - behave towards these two individuals? How do you treat them? This is very important. Do you prefer a person who has spent his entire life serving the Revolution and religion to someone who not only has not taken any step on the path of religion and the Revolution, but who has also harmed and stung them as well?
Well, these points are important. These are points that should receive attention. If we do not pay attention to these points and if we show interest - as a result of being carried away - in someone who is fundamentally opposed to the Islamic Revolution, the Islamic Republic and the Islamic government, this is contrary to a reasonable cultural movement. Therefore, I believe that the spirit of freedom should exist accompanied by fair planning. I believe neither in cultural chaos and decadence nor in fanaticism, reactionary approach and cultural dictatorship. I believe in neither of these things. The correct path is to plan, to guide, to help good cultural phenomena and to prevent damages, attacks and the like. This means offense and defense.
The sixth issue - I think that this is the last one or the one before the last - is the issue of the long-term plans. We have delayed implementing the Sixth Plan. The Sixth Plan is really an important issue. Well, the importance of the plans is clear to you and you know how important plans are. Plans create both coordination and cooperation. Moreover, the chain of plans - in a continuous manner - helps us reach the goals specified in the [20-year] strategic plan. If this chain of plans is broken off somewhere in the middle, we will not be able to produce the desired result. This is clear. Therefore, these plans are very significant. Now, there is a procedure for formulating these plans which is specified in the Constitution: there are some policies that are announced to everyone. On the basis of these policies, the administration prepares a plan and then this plan turns into the law. As a result of this, everyone will be obliged to implement the details of this plan. The Majlis too will be informed of the procedure of this plan.
In my opinion, you should do this as soon as possible. You should move it forward. You should not allow this issue to remain idle more than this. Of course, in these plans, the basis of the work in the area of the economy should be the economy of resistance. In the area of culture, it should observe the points that we mentioned. And in the area of science and technology - these three areas are very important - it should pay attention to the characteristics that we mentioned. There should be an effort to attend to research and to the development of science.
Another point is about cyberspace. I would like to request that Mr. President pursues this matter. This is because cyberspace is really a growing and unstoppable world. There is no end to this world. No matter how hard we look, the thing that is infinite and endless is cyberspace. The more we move forward in this world, the more it continues. This presents great opportunities for every country. And it involves certain threats as well. We should do something to make the most of the opportunities and to keep the threats at bay as much as possible. Well, the Supreme Council of Cyberspace was formed to that end. In the report that Dr. Jahangiri delivered, he ignored this area almost completely. There was only one sentence saying that they did and such and such a thing. For example, they have provided such and such a thing in the case of that area which is very efficient in the National Information Network.
He also referred to search engines. It is several years now that launching local search engines has begun. They are developing search engines. In the present time, youth from different corners of the country have designed, built and produced perhaps tens of search engines. This is not a new achievement. Dr. Jahangiri placed great emphasis on this as well. However, we have not moved forward in the area of the National Information Network which is an important domestic network. Although Mr. Vaezi and all the friends in the meeting believe in this, this has not moved forward. By Allah's favor, we should pursue this matter so that we do not inflict irremediable damages.
And the last issue is the issue of excessively high salaries. Dr. Rouhani also mentioned this issue in the last part of his speech. I strongly request that you do not let go of this issue easily. Of course, dragging out the issue is perhaps not a positive course of action. As Dr. Rouhani pointed out, it should not be the case that we constantly re-read the figures about such and such a person's salary. But on the other hand, what you do in response is very important. In other words, you should say to the people what you have done. The people's trust has been damaged on this issue. Notice that the people do not digest many of these big figures, but they easily digest figures like 40, 50, 60 million tomans. A person who earns one million, one million and two hundred thousand and one million and five hundred thousand tomans understands perfectly what 50 million tomans means. The people whose salary is this much are not few in number in the country. The people's trust should not be damaged by this course of action.
As Mr. Rouhani correctly said, our main capital is the people's trust and hope. You make so many efforts and work so hard and then someone comes and ruins all these efforts by earning unfair money. Is the gap between fifty and one million not unfair? In the present time, do you not have a person in your administration who earns one million, one million and two hundred thousand, one million and five hundred thousand tomans as their salaries? You have many such individuals. And there are some individuals who earn 30, 40 million! Is this not unfair? You should sympathize with the people so that they feel that you feel the same pain that they do! You should show them that you are firmly determined to confront and to prevent this issue. You should show this to them.
In any case, this is an important point. In my opinion, no excuse should be fabricated on the behalf of wrongdoers. They should be confronted decisively and this is not particular to the executive branch. This holds true for all branches and organizations. Everyone should observe this. Well, the executive branch is in front of the people's eyes and it is more spread out than other branches and organizations. It is not only the executive branch that should confront wrongdoers. The judiciary branch too should confront them where necessary - where there is room for it to enter the arena.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
