
<meta year="2004" title="Leader's Speech at Imam Ali Military Academy "/>
I would like to congratulate you all, the dear youngsters, on your receiving your epaulets and on the start of your official membership in the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Our young people who study at the military academies of the Islamic Republic of Iran Army follow two major objectives: acquiring knowledge and receiving military training and preparation. The military servicemen of our country are expected to be learned and knowledgeable people with a proper understanding and adequate knowledge of both domestic and international issues.
Education prepares the ground for great achievements. The first thing that you, the young people, are expected to do is to increase your knowledge, as it enables the society and country to become strong. Whatever befell the backward nations of the world was because of their neglect and ignorance.
The second objective is to attain a military spirit and a brave and valorous character. The learning of military techniques should be accompanied by attaining this spirit.
The military servicemen, whether they are serving in the Islamic Republic of Iran Army or the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps or in other branches of the armed forces, are the ones who are ready to make brave sacrifices for the sake of the lofty ideals of their nation and the progress and sovereignty of their country. When a nation pursues lofty and noble objectives, it will naturally have enemies, and the enemies will surely engage in hostile acts against that nation.
If a nation aims to enjoy honor and dignity, it should be powerful. The power, in its military form, emanates from the armed forces, which are the strong fortifications of the nation.
The ideals of the Islamic Republic are noble human and divine objectives. The moral elevation, progress and welfare of humans, a powerful society, progress in various fields of human knowledge and wisdom, advocating justice throughout the world and confronting the bullying powers and aggressors are among the objectives of the Islamic Republic. If a nation pursues these ideals, divine assistance will be bestowed on it, and it will enjoy honor and dignity in the eyes of other nations.
The Islamic Republic of Iran, by presenting its noble ideals to the world, the ideals that refreshed other nations like a spring breeze, has achieved a high status in the eyes of other nations. Today, nations in other parts of the world where the negative propaganda of the enemies has not proved so effective hold the Iranian people in high regard.
During some eight years of the imposed war, when the Iranian nation and our armed forces defended their country wholeheartedly and in an unforgettable manner, many Muslim nations grasped the views, ideals and stances of the Iranian people just because of the brave resistance that our nation put up in the face of the enemy's assault and aggression. 
Indeed, the ideals of the Islamic Republic also exist in the depth of hearts of all nations. All nations advocate independence, freedom and liberation from the clutches of the domineering and expansionist powers. All nations want a prosperous life enjoying welfare, scientific progress, security and peace of mind. These objectives, which will not be fulfilled unless with the help of moral and spiritual values, are among the lofty ideals of the Islamic Republic. 
The Iranian nation is trying to attain power, but not for aggression and expansionism, welfare, but not accompanied by a social gap, and scientific progress, but not by ignoring spiritual values. The Islamic system is pursuing welfare combined with justice, scientific progress and development together with security and peace of mind of individuals and power combined with a brotherly attitude toward other nations in the world. These are the ideals of the Islamic Republic.
You are striving at this academy, which has been adorned with the auspicious name of Imam Ali (greetings be upon him), and at any other military academy in the way of and for the sake of these ideals, and you are preparing yourselves for a brave and valiant defense. This is a great and very valuable opportunity. You should recognize the worth of this opportunity and make the most of it.
Today, the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic are held in high regard by our nation; they are venerated in the eyes of the Iranian people. Today, our armed forces are part of our nation. Try to boost in yourselves the spirit of being from the people, with the people, for the people and for their objectives.
In an atmosphere of enthusiasm, high spirits and seeking knowledge associated with youth, make the most of your present opportunity at this academy and further purify your souls. The spirit of sincerity and purity of heart associated with youth is a great blessing, which you should highly value while you are young. Today, you are studying in order to render one of the most valuable services to your country and nation and to the revered Islam. This is a precious opportunity.
Try to keep the spirit of hope alive in yourselves. The hallowed name of Imam Mahdi (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) infuses mankind with hopes and aspirations. Anyone with this enlivening hope holds the belief that the world's arrogant powers, who are like the foam on the surface of water, would not be able to confront the genuine campaign for justice, truth and spirituality. You are the ones who are affiliated with this genuine campaign. Try to become more familiar with your path and your objectives; try to recognize the worth of your objectives.
I hope the courses and training offered by our military academies will result in the increasing progress of the Islamic Republic of Iran Army and better education of our cadets. I pray to Almighty Allah to protect you all and save you the dear youngsters for our nation and country.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings 
