
<meta year="2016" title=" Ayatollah Khamenei: Whenever We Relied on Revolutionary Spirit We Moved Forward"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa Muhammad and upon his immaculate, pure and chosen household, especially the one remaining with Allah on earth
Welcome dear brothers and sisters and honorable families of martyrs. Without any exaggeration, the survival of the Revolution and the security and progress of the country in every area are because of the patience and resistance of the honorable families of martyrs and because of the blood of those dear martyrs. These days are very suitable for our meeting. These days are marked by the martyrdom of the Imam of the Pious (a.s.). This great personality is the greatest martyr not only in the history of Islam, but also in the entire history of humanity.
There is an epithet that has been used for Hazrat Aba-Abdullah al-Hussein, the Master of Martyrs: "tharallah" which means someone whose blood money is God. This is what "tharallah" means. His blood money and the blood money for such dear personalities are so heavy that only Allah the Exalted can pay them. The same epithet has been used for the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.). You say in your prayers: "[Greetings be upon you] tharallah and you son of him who is tharallah." The latter refers to the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.). He too enjoys the same greatness. These terms and epithets make it clear what magnificence this great martyr - who was martyred in the mihrab and who was a martyr on the path of the truth, steadfastness and resistance - enjoys.
Well, these days are days of praying, supplication, reliance on God and the like. One of the tools for reliance on and closeness to God is paying attention to the pure souls of our martyrs. If we want to rely on God and supplicate before Him and if we want our prayers to be answered at these nights - whether the Nights of Qadr or all nights in the month of Ramadan, each of which is an astonishing event and story - we should ask these exalted souls to intercede on our behalf. We should make them our interceders and our dear martyrs are among these exalted souls. The families of martyrs - including fathers, mothers, children, wives and other relatives - have the opportunity to ask the souls of their dear martyrs to help them get close to God. This is because their hearts are attached to their martyrs.
The families of martyrs are very dear. I have always said that our martyrs are in the front lines of defending values, the Revolution, Islam and the Holy Quran and that their families - including the fathers, the mothers, the wives and the children - are immediately behind them. The value of this should be appreciated. The impact that these martyrdoms exert on Islam and on Muslims are not few in number. Today, after the passage of 35 years from the event of the 7th of Tir and the martyrdom of those dear personalities, that event continues to inspire. A group of evil and cruel terrorists inside the country attacked and assassinated a number of great personalities - who were among the foundations of the country - thus depriving the country of their existence. Then, they ran away and threw themselves into the arms of those countries whose claim of fighting against terrorism has been heard throughout the world. Such countries received them into their arms.
European governments, let alone Asian governments and reactionary systems in the region- they are not worth mentioning- have made extravagant claims about fighting against terrorism and supporting human rights. They have made these claims in a loud voice and they consider themselves as the main side on this matter. However, they have no answer to give if they are asked, "Why did you open your arms to receive the murderers who killed our people? Why did you offer refuge to them? Why did you not give them to the Islamic Republic so that it metes out the divine punishment on them? Why did you do that?" 
This big scandal for western and European governments and for America is a historical event. This is a very important matter. This matter cannot be ignored easily. History will not forget this event. This is one side of the issue. Another side of the issue is related to the terrorists themselves. They are individuals who entered the scene of revolutionary activities in the name of defending "the people"- some of them even did so in the name of defending Islam- and who wrote this scandal and disaster in their performance sheet. And after that, they went and asked Saddam to grant them asylum. The same people who claimed to be fighting against the Americans went and sought asylum from Saddam. Today too, they are living, under the umbrella of America's protection, in Iraq and parts of Europe where they were transferred to. The event of the 7th of Tir of 1360 was an astonishing event. There are instructive lessons in that event.
Of course, we have not worked enough on this area. Mr. Shahidi pointed out that they are working on it in the Foundation of Martyrs and Veterans Affairs, but our responsibility is not only to show respect for their families and to praise them. This is not the only responsibility. You should revive that event and keep it alive. Once more, it was the people and their revolutionary spirit that kept such events alive. We do not even have one movie about that great event. We do not have an artistic work about the event of the 7th of Tir, one that can clarify the truths so that it becomes clear who and what they were, who those that were martyred were, who Shahid Beheshti was, and who and what those sincere, religious and self-sacrificing ministers - who entered the arena with all their power, with whom we were living and whom we knew up close - were. We do not even have one artistic work, one cinematic movie, one play and one good novel about that event! These are tasks that we have not carried out yet and that we should carry out in the future. This was related to the martyrs of the 7th of Tir.
As for the martyrs of the Sacred Defense Era, well, certain tasks have been carried out in this regard, but whatever that is done is not enough. Thousands of martyrs in different circumstances, from different cities and at different levels - ranging from fourteen-year-old teenagers to sixty, seventy-year-old individuals - entered this arena and turned that war into a popular one. They broke the monopoly of the formal forces in the war. Whatever task that the people carry out behind and alongside the formal forces and in a motivated manner will move forward.
Today too, we offer the same advice to government officials in all areas - whether in the area of the economy or in other areas. This happened in the war. The people went and put themselves to that astonishing test. This is not a joke. We have only heard certain things about the war. You should read the books that contain the details of those operations. You should read about the individuals in the war ranging from the main bases in the arena of war, which belonged to the Islamic Republic of Iran Army and the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps, to the lower levels - the level of battalions, companies and platoons. The biography of each of these youth is a lesson for us. The behavior, statements, and moves of each and every youth who was martyred are a gate towards a world of understanding. This will make us vigilant and wise.
Today, we are involved with the issue of the martyrs who defended the Ahlul Bayt (a.s.) shrines. This is one of the astonishing stories of history. During the time of war, we used to encourage youth to go and fight in the arena of war and they would answer our call. Whenever Imam (r.a.) delivered a speech in this regard, a large group of youth would go and join the front lines. But we do not encourage them today. Nonetheless, notice that the determination of these youth from Iran, Afghanistan and other countries is so strong and their faith is so pure that they leave their young wives, their infant children and their comfortable lives and go to a foreign country and foreign soil to fight and be martyred in the way of God. Is this a minor incident? Each and every step in the history of the Islamic Revolution has witnessed such determining wonders. These are wondrous events. 
I should mention that this event has three dimensions: one is the patience, motivation and faith of the martyrs themselves. Another dimension is the patience and endurance of their families. The young wives of martyrs could do something to prevent their husbands from going to war. Their parents could also prevent them from going. They showed patience and endurance during the time of their departure, during the time when their pure bodies were returned to them and also after that. And the third dimension is the event itself which is a historiography of the Islamic Revolution. This is what the Revolution and the Islamic Republic are. It is these motives, faiths, mental powers, determinations and willpowers that have created the Islamic Republic. So, can the Islamic Republic be underestimated? What do the enemies think about the Islamic Republic? The Islamic Republic is a strong body with all this power and capability. It is these things that have formed the Islamic Republic.
Of course, there is some weakness in some corner of the country. There are such and such weak-willed and irresolute individuals who become addicted and corrupt and who suffer from many problems. This exists in all societies. What is important is that a society benefits from preserving foundations which can help it move forward, which can protect it in the face of various events and which can preserve it like a rock. These solid foundations are our martyrs, their families, these self-sacrificing individuals and these disabled war veterans. They are our solid foundations. This is why the Islamic Republic has managed to overcome various challenges.
Dear brothers and sisters, I have perhaps said this tens of times and in different ways, but I would like to repeat it again: Whenever we relied on the Revolution and the revolutionary spirit, we moved forward. And whenever we compromised our values, ignored the Revolution, eliminated the principles of the Revolution and justified this course of action and whenever we mumbled and minced our words in order to please the elements of arrogance - who are the main enemies of Islam and the Islamic Republic - we fell behind. This is the truth of the matter. The path for the progress of Islamic Iran is to revive the spirit of the Revolution and the spirit of jihad.
There are different arenas for jihad. Of course, all the arenas of jihad involve some danger. Look at the nuclear martyrs. They worked in the arena of science, but they became the target of the enemy. This is jihad: "Allah has granted a grade higher to those who strive and fight with their goods and persons than to those who sit at home" [The Holy Quran, 4: 95]. This is why Allah the Exalted considers those who engage in jihad as superior to others. How long will we live in this world? This world has existed billions of years before our arrival and it will continue to live for billions of years after our departure. Out of these billions of years, sixty, seventy years belong to you and I. Therefore, we should benefit from our opportunities in this period of time. We should prepare ourselves for the real life that is ahead of us: "But verily the home in the hereafter - that is life indeed" [The Holy Quran, 29: 64].
In this period of time, some people engage in jihad and they achieve lofty positions because of that. By doing this, not only do they build their hereafter, but they also create and strengthen the world of others. This part was related to jihad. And this part is related to martyrs: ""Think not of those who are slain in Allah's way as dead. Nay, they live, finding their sustenance in the presence of their Lord. They rejoice in the bounty provided by Allah. And with regard to those left behind, who have not yet joined them in their bliss, the martyrs glory in the fact that on them is no fear, nor have do they grieve" [The Holy Quran, 3: 169-170].
The issue is like this. This is God's word. This is God's glad tidings. He says that martyrs are alive, that they are with God, that they have received divine blessings and rewards, and that they are happy and joyous. They are saying to us that if we take this path, there will be no worries, fear and sorrow: "That on them is no fear." This is the path. Martyrs took the right path and they moved forward in the correct manner.
Of course, you families endured many difficulties and felt a deep sorrow and you have the right to feel like this. It is very difficult to lose your young one no matter if he was your husband, your son, your son-in-law or your brother. This is very difficult for the relatives, but you should know that they are very happy. They are living in the shade of divine blessings.
We should adopt such an outlook in the face of our arrogant enemies. Our arrogant enemies are unaware of this truth. They cannot comprehend this in their calculations. You have heard about asymmetric wars. An asymmetric war is a war in which one of the sides enjoys certain resources while the other side does not have such resources. Their war tactics, their resources and sometimes even their sources of power are unknown to the other side. This is an asymmetric war. They do now know what power lies in faith in God and in belief in jihad. Of course, they see the results of it, but they cannot analyze it. That is why they resort to crazy measures. The issue of DAESH, the issue of these takfiri terrorists and other such issues are all examples of such crazy measures.
In fact, they created these terrorists in order to defeat the Islamic Republic. Iraq was an introductory step. Shaam [Syria and Levant] was also an introductory step. They were introductory steps towards exerting their influence on our country. However, our power in the country caused them to be defeated there as well. This was their goal. A person who goes from Iran to Iraq and to Syria in order to stand up against these takfiri orientations in the name of defending the Ahlul Bayt's (a.s.) shrines is, in fact, defending his own city. Of course, they do so for the sake of God, but this is the truth of the matter. This is an act of defending Iran and the Islamic community.
This is not particular to Shias. Those takfiri elements do not differentiate between Shias and Sunnis. They strike Sunnis as well. We have so many Sunni ulama in our country - such as the late Sheikh ul-Islam in Sanandaj, the late Hussein-Bor in Baluchistan, and other such ulama - who were assassinated by these takfiri elements. These terrorists shed their blood in an oppressive manner. They do not differentiate between Shias and Sunnis. They strike anyone who is with the Revolution and anyone who is against arrogance and opposed to America. But they refer to this as a "war between Shia and Sunni". 
Take a look at Bahrain. The issue of Bahrain is not about a war between Shia and Sunni, rather the issue is about the tyrannical and foolish rule of an arrogant and selfish minority over a big majority. A small minority is ruling over 70, 80 percent of the people of Bahrain. Today too, they are harassing Sheikh Isa Qassem, who is a mujahid scholar. This shows their stupidity and foolishness! Sheikh Isa Qassem was a person who would have prevented the harsh and armed moves of the people as long as he could speak to them. He would have prevented them from doing so. They do not understand who they have confronted. They do not understand that attacking Sheikh Isa Qassem means removing the barrier in the way of enthusiastic and valorous youth of Bahrain. If these youth strike and attack the ruling system, they will not be able to silence them in any other way! When I say that their calculations are wrong, this is one example. This is a wrong calculation which is a result of failure to understand the condition of society, of the people and of their faith.
The path is the path of Islam. The path is the path of reliance on God. The path is the path of reliance on divine power. The path is the path of faith. The correct path is this. The people can remove all these obstacles with faith, with jihad and with firm determination. Thankfully, today we have many pious, mujahid and active individuals both in our country and in other countries. As you witness, today, people from different countries are resisting and standing up against the attacks launched by American and Israeli mercenaries despite the fact that they are not in their own countries - they are far away from their own countries.
Dear brothers and sisters, you should appreciate the value of these nights and these hours. You should pray for yourselves and ask God in a beseeching manner to answer your prayers, and you should ask Him to answer the prayers of other people as well. In these nights - nights like last night, like tomorrow night and like the 23rd night - many voices will be raised in supplication everywhere in the world of Islam and in every place where the people believe in this concept: "Many voices and cries will be raised towards you with words of various kinds" [Iqbal al-A'mal, Vol.1, page 346]. In these nights, voices will be raised everywhere and many tears will be shed. They pray for themselves and for others. One of your prayers should be to ask Allah the Exalted to answer the prayers of those believers who pray in these nights. You should ask this from God.
Prayers should be said in an attentive manner. I would like to say that some of the gatherings in which prayers are recited are really sweet and lovely gatherings. In such gatherings, the reciter does not recite duas only for the sake of the listeners. He recites them for himself as well. Some reciters are like this. They themselves are touched by duas. When the reciter feels that he is speaking to God and that he is present before the God of the world and when he feels the dua, the audience will feel it as well. There are also some cases - which are very few in number, of course - in which the reciter recites duas in a very inattentive manner. Sometimes, we see some of these reciters on TV. They only sing certain things and they do not pay attention at all. They do not feel the duas at all. When they do not feel the duas, their audience will not feel them either. They cannot make themselves shed tears, nor can they do something to make their audience shed tears. They cannot touch the hearts of their listeners because their own hearts have not been touched. Duas should not be recited like this.
Praying is a way of speaking to Allah the Exalted. As our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) said, "Praying is an ascending Quran." This means that it is a way of speaking to God. When you read the Holy Quran, it is God Who is speaking to you. However, when you pray, it is you who are speaking to God. When you read the Holy Quran, this is a descending Quran. In other words, it is Allah the Exalted Who is speaking to you and Who is clarifying the truth for you. It has been descended from above. And when you pray, it is you who are speaking to God. During prayer, it is your voice which will ascend. If you pray well, your prayers will be heard: "And hear my prayers when I say them for you and hear my voice when I call you." This is a prayer that we read in Dua Sha'baniyyah. In this prayer, we ask God to listen to our prayers. There is one manner of praying which is not heard by God. We read in a dua, "I seek refuge in You from a self which cannot be satiated, from a heart which does not show humility and from a prayer which is not heard."
We say to God that we seek refuge in You from a prayer which is not heard. In other words, Allah the Exalted does not pay any attention to such prayers. "And from a daily prayer which does not bring me any benefit." Well, "daily prayers help every pious individual to get close to God." [al-Kafi, Vol. 3, page 265]. Daily prayers should help us get close to God. If they do not help us get close to Him, then they are of no value. Of course, this does not mean that we should not say them anymore. We should not say to ourselves, "Now that they do not bring me any benefit, I will not say them any longer." This should not be the case. You should say them and fulfill your duty. However, you should do something to turn your daily prayers into beneficial prayers. You should say them in an attentive manner and with your hearts present.
This opportunity to fast is a very valuable opportunity for you. It can soften your hearts to a great extent and it can make them humble with the result that you can speak to God. Duas should be read like this. The duas that are particular to Ramadan dawns, to the Nights of Qadr and to all nights in general - not only to these nights - are very valuable. Apart from the teachings that exist in these duas, the feeling of humility that we get from these duas is very valuable in itself.
I hope that Allah the Exalted associates all of our dear martyrs - including the martyrs of the 7th of Tir, the nuclear martyrs, the martyrs of the Sacred Defense Era, the martyrs who defended the Ahlul Bayt (a.s.) shrines, the martyrs of the Islamic Revolution from the first day to the last, and the martyrs who were martyred on the path of carrying out their responsibilities - with the Holy Prophet (s.w.a.), God willing. I hope that He will bestow substantial rewards on you families of martyrs and on the great family of martyrdom throughout the country, and that he will bestow patience, tranquility and peace on your hearts, God willing.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings


