
<meta year="2016" title="Cooperating with U.S. is a great sin: Ayatollah Khamenei"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings be upon our Master and Prophet, Ab-al-Qassem al-Mustafa Muhammad and upon his immaculate, pure and infallible household, especially the one remaining with Allah on earth
Today's meeting was a very sweet and ideal meeting. I benefitted from the recitations and Quranic art of our dear men and youth. And I would like to welcome the guests who have come here from other countries, whether the Quranic professors who are present here or the competitors who have attended this meeting.
One of the greatest advantages of these meetings, in which Quranic competitions are held, is the close relationship between Muslim brothers from different countries. Arrogant policies of various kinds try very hard to separate us from one another, to make Muslim nations drift away from each other and even to pit them against one another. However, Muslim nations should act in the exact opposite manner. They should try - as hard as they can and with whatever way they can find - to establish a closer relationship with one another. One of the ways to do so is to hold such meetings. The Holy Quran is a pivot, something that is shared among us. It is a great divine blessing for all Muslims. Everyone should benefit from this divine and spiritual banquet. These Quranic meetings and competitions give everyone the opportunity to do so.
Another blessing of these meetings is that our youth and people from various social backgrounds establish a close relationship with the Holy Quran. This is a reality: we are far away from the Holy Quran. The Islamic Ummah is far away from the Holy Quran. There is a wide gap between our lives and the realities of our lives, and Quranic truths. We should get close to these truths. The happiness of the Islamic Ummah lies in becoming dependent on the Holy Quran and on Quranic concepts, teachings and lessons. One of the ways to do so is to make Quran a source of closeness for youth, peoples, women and men. This is another blessing of these competitions. I thank those individuals who held, organized and managed these competitions and who went to a lot of trouble.
Notice that today they spend a lot of money and carry out important tasks in order to harm Islam and Muslims. The taghuti powers in the world are afraid of Islam. They are afraid of the one and a half billion community of Muslims. This is why they are doing their best - in different ways - to take away power from the Muslim community. They know that Islam is opposed to their greedy intentions. If the voice of Islam is raised, then it will not be possible anymore to oppress nations like this. They are muffling the voice of Islam so that they can consign to oblivion the issues of underprivileged nations in the world, the issue of Palestine and the issue of occupying an Islamic country. This is their goal. If we rely on the Holy Quran and on Quranic guidance, we will be able to overcome these plots. If we continue this jihad, victory will surely belong to us. We should get attached to the Holy Quran. The world of Islam needs to get attached to the rope that Allah stretches out. It should strengthen itself and guarantee its resistance. Today, this is what the world of Islam needs.
We should not be weak. We should be strong. Strength does not only lie in weapons and money. The main basis for strength is faith in God and steadfastness. Allah the Exalted says, "Whoever rejects evil and believes in Allah has grasped the most trustworthy hand-hold that never breaks" [The Holy Quran, 2: 256]. If we have faith in God and reject evil, this is grasping "the most trustworthy hand-hold". This is a source of power and strength. We should promote and want this in the world of Islam. Unfortunately, there are some people in the world of Islam who rely on taghut instead of relying on the Holy Quran. Those who implement American policies in the region and who act according to the wishes, opinions and policies of America - which is the greatest taghut and shaitan - have attached themselves to taghut. They have not rejected evil. The first condition is: "Whoever rejects evil and believes in Allah." Rejecting taghut should exist.
The main point behind the power of the people of Iran is their resistance against the greed and extravagant claims of America. Today, we are a powerful nation. The issue of Islam in Iran is different from the issue of such and such a religious or political personality. We are a government, one that has resources and that benefits from an eighty-million population, weapons, economy, politics and science. Today, this is the Islamic Republic. The enemy is afraid of a powerful Islam. He is afraid of a courageous Islam. Similarly, they are afraid of the Islamic Republic for this reason and this is why they are attacking it.
Their attack on us originates from their fear of us. They attack us because they are afraid and know that the positions of the Islamic Republic are influential in the world. They attack because we speak honestly to Muslim nations and because we behave towards them in an honest manner. We do what we say and we pursue it. The promises of taghuts have failed to deceive the Islamic Republic and the people of Iran. Their promises did not deceive us, nor did their threats frighten us. We are not intimidated by their threats and we are not deceived by their promises either. This is necessary. This should be pursued. This is what the Islamic Ummah needs: rejecting taghut and believing in Allah. If this happens, then we have "grasped the most trustworthy hand-hold."
Unfortunately, a number of Islamic governments are betraying their own peoples. Some Islamic governments are betraying the Islamic Ummah. They are preparing the ground for the influence of America. They cooperate with the greatest taghut - which is the regime of the United States of America - and they implement its policies. Today, this is the problem of Muslims. Today, this is the problem of our region. This is a great sin that they are committing.
The responsibility of the entire Islamic nation and each and every one in the Islamic Ummah is to fight with the purpose of enlightening. This is the primary responsibility. Ulama, outstanding personalities, educated individuals and all those who have a minbar and who can speak to others are responsible for enlightening people and explaining the realities of the world of Islam for those who are not aware of these realities. This is jihadi enlightenment. Jihad is not only wielding a sword and fighting in an arena of war. Jihad includes intellectual, practical, explanatory, promotional and financial endeavor. Today, because we have not carried out this duty - the duty to explain - properly, some people have false notions and they are working against Islam while they think that they are working for it.
These terrorist groups who have taken away security and tranquility from Muslim nations are fighting against Muslims instead of fighting against the enemy. These takfiri groups - that are close to Wahhabi groups - are people who are carrying the enemy's load for him. They are doing the enemy's job for him. They have created discord among Muslims. When Muslims become busy fighting against one another, the issue of Palestine will be forgotten. This is what they are doing in the present time. We should explain, enlighten and work. You should benefit from these Quranic meetings. You should benefit from these Quranic gatherings. You who have come from different countries should guide and enlighten your own people. You should invite them to Quranic teachings, to Quranic jihad and to the kind of clarification that the Holy Quran wants: "You shall certainly make it known to men and you shall not hide it" [The Holy Quran, 3: 187]. You should explain these things for them and you should enlighten them.
I hope that Allah the Exalted will prepare the ground for the movement of the Islamic Ummah, God willing. If we engage in jihad, if we move forward, if we purify our intentions, then Allah the Exalted will help us. However, if we show laziness, if we do not carry out our duty, it is natural that we should not expect divine assistance. Allah the Exalted helps those who work and who try hard. Allah the Exalted will help those nations who move. He helps those individuals who try hard. We should try hard and move forward. And Allah the Exalted will help us.
And we have no doubts that victory belongs to Islam. Despite its largeness, its flashy appearance and its violent threats, this camp of kufr will finally be forced to retreat in the face of the Islamic Ummah and the mujahid front of Islam: "If the unbelievers should fight you, they would certainly turn their backs, then would they find neither protector nor helper" [The Holy Quran, 48: 22]. This is the divine tradition and there is no doubt about this. The only condition is that we should make efforts, move forward and work hard. If we work, then this is a divine tradition that the enemy should retreat and he will surely retreat.
I hope that Allah the Exalted will help all of us to live and die with the Holy Quran and I hope that He will associate us with it on Judgment Day.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
