
<meta year="1999" title="Leader's Statements in a Meeting with Majlis Deputies"/>
Regarding the significance and high status of the Majlis in the Islamic system, Ayatollah Khamenei stressed:
"The Majlis is the essence of our nation. It is the manifestation of the will of our nation and attests to the popular nature of our government. It is the forum where the course of action of our government is determined, and where efforts are made to fulfill the people's demands through appropriate legislation."
Referring to the history of the constitutional movement in Iran, the Leader stated that although as a result of the constitutional movement, a parliament was formed in this country, the reality on the ground proved that no real significance was attached to the people's votes or to the parliamentary legislation.
"The history bears witness to the fact that the Iranian Parliament had no important role in setting the course of action for the government, nor did it really speak for the Iranian people. This was because the parliamentarians were picked out by the imperial regime and did not represent the nation in its real sense.
"Consequently, the Iranian people had no participation in the country's policymaking, decision-making or legislative process, expect for few cases in one or two two-year tenures of the Parliament after the constitutional movement. This situation continued until the victory of the Islamic Revolution in this country," he added.
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say:
"One of the greatest achievements of the Islamic Revolution, which was unprecedented in the history of our country, was that it encouraged and prepared the ground for the people's active participation in the country's policymaking and legislative process. 
"Today, the parliamentarians, who are the real representatives of the people, since they have been sent to the Parliament by the direct vote of the people, are making an effort to solve the problems of their constituencies through appropriate legislation." 
Concerning the independence of the Legislature from the other branches of the government, namely the Executive and the Judiciary, the Leader of the Islamic Revolution noted: 
"The current independence of the Legislature is a great asset to the nation. What is meant by this independence is that the Majlis should ensure that nothing would undermine or jeopardize the interests of the country and the nation.
"Besides, through appropriate legislation, the Majlis should work out a blueprint that will serve and promote national interests, and then the Executive is expected to implement this blueprint."
In conclusion, Ayatollah Khamenei pointed out:
"Fortunately, the Majlis has so far performed its duties in a satisfactory and proper manner, for which I would like to express my gratitude to all the venerable deputies, especially to the respected Presiding Board and to the esteemed Majlis Speaker." 
