
<meta year="2004" title="Leader's Address on Eid-al-Fitr"/>
I would like to felicitate the great Muslim Ummah and the whole Islamic world, the devoted and vigilant Iranian nation and you the venerable audience, the high-ranking government officials and respected ambassadors and our dear guests from other Islamic countries on the occasion of the auspicious feast of Fitr.
The supplication of the Eid-al-Fitr prayers indicates that Almighty Allah has ordained the day to be a feast for Muslims. The supplication also points out that the feast reflects honor and dignity on Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him and his infallible household). But when will the day be a real feast for us, the Islamic Ummah? Only when we heed the Holy Prophet's teachings and act upon his instructions. In this case, the feast will reflect honor and dignity on our Holy Prophet (peace be upon him and his infallible household). 
Islam deals with all aspects of the everyday life of Muslims and offers a cure and remedy for every malady besetting Muslims. Today, among the maladies besetting the Islamic Ummah what is considered more serious and the root cause of other maladies is the division and discord among Muslim nations. This is because we Muslims do not act upon this divine instruction: "And hold fast by the covenant of Allah all together and be not disunited...," (3: 103).
The weakness of the Islamic world is due to lack of unity. You can see how flagrant and outrageous is the stance taken by the arrogant powers toward the issue of Palestine. The rights of the Palestinian people are being violated; their men, women and children are being killed; their homes and farms are being destroyed, and they are under intense economic pressure. What is the stance of the arrogant powers? Some of them are supporting the Zionists' crimes and atrocities and others are keeping silent. But as far as the stance of the Islamic states is concerned, they are mere onlookers and impartial bystanders in the face of these crimes! This is a great disaster for the Muslim Ummah. The reason for this disaster is the weakness of the Islamic world which stems from lack of unity. 
The arrogant powers pit Muslim nations against one another, make Muslims suspicious of each other and foment religious, ethnic and territorial conflicts among them. Then, they exploit and take advantage of the resulting division and discord. This is the worst disaster for the Islamic world, the most serious malady besetting Muslim nations. 
Today, global arrogance is confronting Islamic countries, one after another. Any one of these Islamic countries that shows signs of weakness will be devoured, it will be destroyed. They confront Islamic countries by raising the issue of human rights, political issues or other issues such as nuclear technology. If today they are bringing up the issue of nuclear technology with respect to Iran, tomorrow they will level the same or similar allegations against other Islamic countries.
However, the Iranian nation is standing firm. We have a live nation, for which we should be grateful to Almighty Allah. Islam has infused our nation with courage and braveness. Islam has made our nation strong and united. The Iranian people care for their honor and dignity and are no longer willing to be degraded and humiliated by the arrogant powers. Therefore, they will stand up to the enemies.
Let us pray to Almighty Allah to bring about concord and congruity among Muslim nations and, by His grace, foil the plots of our enemies which are aimed at pitting Muslim nations against one another and making them suspicious of each other.
If we take steps in this direction and make use of different means and occasions that are available to us, such as the Eid-al-Fitr (fast-breaking feast), Eid-al-Adha (feast of sacrifice) and Hajj pilgrimage, to promote this harmony and unity, the Islamic world will regain its power.
Our government officials should recognize the worth of our great nation. We are all indebted to our devoted people. The government should increase its efforts for the betterment of the nation.
I pray to Almighty Allah to confer His blessings on the sacred soul of Imam Khomeini, who guided us on this path, and to bestow His grace and favor on our martyrs and devotees, on the dedicated men and women who have spent their lives in the way of Allah and for the cause of Islam.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings 
