
<meta year="2016" title="Leader Meets with People of Najafabad"/>
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and greetings be upon our Master Muhammad and upon his immaculate household, and may God curse all their enemies
I would like to welcome you dear brothers and sisters from Najafabad who are truly a sample of revolutionary, pious and loyal men and women in all revolutionary eras - I am saying this genuinely, not out of a mere formality - particularly the esteemed families of martyrs, the honorable ulama and people from different social backgrounds who are present in this meeting.
I completely agree with and approve of what Mr. Hassanati [Friday Prayer Leader of the city] said about Najafabad. I too witness that the people of Najafabad have an advantage over many areas in the country in terms of their honesty, their loyalty and their background in the Revolution.
During the time when Islamic fighting and Islamic movement were not common among all the people in the country, Najafabad was the birthplace of revolutionary thinking. In those eras - in the pre-revolutionary era - I went and saw Najafabad up close. I saw the enthusiasm, awareness, presence and understanding of the people about revolutionary matters. And this existed among people from all social backgrounds, not only among the youth and intellectuals of those days. Even, when we used to speak to villagers and ordinary people about revolutionary matters, we used to see that they were enlightened, well-informed and committed. God's mercy be upon those people who made great efforts and worked hard on the path to enlighten the people.
And during the time when the Revolution achieved victory, Najafabad was in the front lines. The friends in the meeting referred to the Najaf Army and to Shahid Kazemi and other martyrs of that army - those sincere, pious, loyal, courageous and competent commanders. At that time, I checked on this army in an operation zone and in the front lines - I did this more than once - and I could see signs of these outstanding characteristics in them. You stood firm, you resisted, you acted in a sincere and loyal manner and you offered martyrs and disabled war veterans to the Revolution. Therefore, you will be rewarded by God.
Your names shine brightly in the golden page of revolutionary history. You should continue the path because we have not reached the destination yet. We should continue moving forward, trying hard and doing jihad. Arenas have changed, but the principle of jihad continues to prevail. If we can deliver this trust to future generations, we have carried out our duty. Thankfully, your youth are active, diligent and well-informed and the country belongs to the youth. I hope that Allah the Exalted will preserve the blessings of your martyrs, your great personalities and the great scholars that this city has produced - including those who were in Najafabad, Isfahan, Mashhad and Qom: this blessed city has exported many scholars and mujtahids - for you and that we will witness the results of these blessings throughout the whole country, God willing.
I would like to make a brief reference to the martyrdom days of the Ahlul Bayt's unique pearl - Fatimah al-Zahra, Siddiqat al-Tahirah. According to the narration of "Seventy Five Days", these days are the martyrdom days of that great personality. In those days, the Commander of the Faithful (a.s.) said farewell to his dear one with a broken heart and with a chest full of sorrow, and he returned the Holy Prophet's (s.w.a.) precious gift to him. The Commander of the Faithful's (a.s.) heart was full of sorrow, but his willpower and determination was not undermined in any way. This is a lesson for us.
Sometimes our hearts are filled with sorrow - there are such events in our lives, whether in our personal or in our social lives - but our willpower and determination should remain firm. Our steps should be taken firmly. There are sorrows that break mountains, but they cannot break a believer. We continue on the path.
Because we are very close to elections and because elections are very important, I would like to raise a few points about this matter. The first point is the significance of this election. Its significance does not lie in the mere act of going to ballot boxes and throwing in a ballot paper with some people's names on it. The issue is that elections in our country are a national rising. With elections, our people stand up against the enemy and show their mettle. This is why elections are important. When the enemy sees that after the passage of 37 years, he has failed to stop the people from pledging their allegiance to the Islamic Republic despite all his pressures, sanctions and malicious and vicious propaganda efforts, the Revolution becomes awesome and the people of Iran and the Revolution become great in his eyes. Elections are this.
Elections means supporting national dignity, national independence and the national resistance of the people of Iran. Notice that when Mr. Hassanati spoke about the loyalty and resistance of the people of Najafabad, both you and this humble person felt proud in our hearts. When the loyalty, resistance, willpower and determination of a group of people show themselves, any viewer and listener feels proud. Elections means showing the loyalty of the people of Iran. An approximately eighty-million nation is announcing its presence - in such a courageous and bold manner - in this enemy-packed arena and in this arena of mines, conflicts and vicious and malicious fighting. Elections are this and notice how important they are. Anyone who is interested in the dignity of Islamic Iran should and will participate in these elections. By Allah's favor, we will witness this.
On Friday, the world will see how eagerly and enthusiastically the people of Iran will move towards the fulfillment of their responsibility and the assertion of their right - elections are both a responsibility and a right. In my opinion, this is the most important point that should be raised on the issue of elections. I have said many times and I would like to repeat that this is the essence of elections.
The second point is that the ill-wishers of the people of Iran are as sensitive as the people of Iran themselves about these elections and about all our elections in the past 37 years. They have always wanted to find faults with our elections with different tricks. They have used all sorts of tricks: for some time, they tried to say that elections are fake and that the essence of elections does not exist in Iran in any way. Well, elections were in front of everyone's eyes. In the first years of the Revolution, they had launched this propaganda campaign. And for a while, they tried to prevent the people from going to ballot boxes with their propaganda efforts. Even in one term of elections - two, three days before the beginning of a specific election - the U.S. president said outspokenly to the people of Iran that they should not vote. But what did the people do? They showed obstinacy. The number of participants in that election was larger than ever. This was another trick that they used. They tried to prevent the people from going to ballot boxes with all sorts of tricks and with different propaganda efforts.
Another trick was that they tried to convey the message to the people that their elections are of no avail because when they write the name of someone, someone else's name comes out. They used to say these things and you most probably remember this. Perhaps, those who are young do not remember this and they might not have seen those days, but most people remember it. They used to produce and chant slogans about this. And unfortunately, some ignorant people inside the country used to sing this song with them. For some time, they used to chant this slogan. However, none of this worked and these tricks could not undermine the people's determination and they could not overshadow the people's understanding about the significance of the matter.
In the present time too, they are using other ways. Of course, experience has taught American politicians that they should not make any statement because whenever they make a statement, the people act in the opposite manner. This is why they are silent this time. American politicians have become silent. They are not saying anything out of fear, lest the people act in the opposite way. However, the little sycophants in the banquet of arrogance - those who have gone abroad and who are feeding from the banquet of American and English governments - are busy. They are busy day and night in different media - in the virtual world, in the Internet and the like. One of the things that they do is conducting false polls and concluding from them that the people are not interested in elections.
One of the tricks that they have recently learned and that is being implemented by them is creating false polarizations. They create false polarizations. This is an important point. I would like to discuss this more with you dear brothers and sisters: false polarizations.
Well, elections are a competition. It is clear that everyone tries to win a competition. Everyone tries to be ahead of others. Naturally, there is enthusiasm, dynamism, endeavor and the like in a competition. So, elections are a competition. Someone goes ahead and someone falls behind. This is not enmity, this is not hostility, this is not a polarization. They constantly say in their radios, televisions and different media that there is a polarization among the people of Iran - that is to say, a division among them through which they show hostility towards and work against one another. Yes, there is a polarization in Islamic Iran: the polarization between the Revolution and arrogance.
The remaining waste from the era of the domination of arrogance and anyone who follows and agrees with arrogance have a hostile relationship with the Revolution. This polarization exists, but the majority of the people of Iran are revolutionary and interested in the Islamic Republic. They love Imam (r.a.) and his memories, his statements, his voice, his words of advice and his principles. This is the case even with those who did not see Imam (r.a.) even for one single moment and who were born after Imam's (r.a.) demise. The majority of the people of Iran are interested in these things. So, it is not a wonder that there is a polarization between those who love Imam (r.a.) and the Revolution, and those who do not believe in the essence of the Revolution and the Islamic Republic. Of course, I have said to those who do not believe in the essence of the Islamic Republic that they too should participate in elections because they believe in Iran as well as other people. They should participate in elections for the sake of Iran's dignity. Now, some people listen and some do not.
In the present time, they create fake polarizations. Fake polarizations! This originates from there and it is sometimes repeated inside the country. But those who are well-informed about foreigners' propaganda and who listen to their news know that this belongs to them. They say that there is a polarization between a pro-government and an anti-government Majlis. They say this as if some people in Iran favor a pro-government Majlis and some people favor an anti-government one. This is not the case. The people of Iran neither want a pro-government Majlis nor an anti-government Majlis. The people of Iran want a Majlis that is familiar with its responsibilities, one that knows what responsibilities it has on the basis of the Constitution. They want a Majlis that is pious and courageous and that is not intimidated by America. They want a Majlis that is truly interested in the progress of the country and that pursues this progress by cultivating the talented youth of this country and these people in scientific areas. They want such a Majlis.
This is a Majlis that knows what pains the people and the country are suffering from, and that tries to remedy them. This is the meaning of legislation and the people want such a Majlis. What do a pro-government Majlis and an anti-government Majlis mean? These are fake polarizations. You can contact each and every person in Iran and ask them if they want a Majlis that is aware of the pains and problems of the people and the country and that tries to solve them or a Majlis that favors such and such a person. What answer do the people give? It is evident that they want the former. The important thing for the people is this.
They want a Majlis that is pious, committed and courageous. They want a Majlis that is immune to deception, one that is not deceived by the enemy's tricks. They want a Majlis that attaches significance to national dignity and national independence. They want a Majlis that does not trample upon national dignity and national independence. They want a Majlis that stands up against the greed of arrogance and those powers whose hands have been cut off from Iran and who are trying to return to Iran and take the affairs of the country in their hands. They want such a Majlis. We brought up the issue of a home-grown economy. The people want a Majlis that makes time for a home-grown economy in the real sense of the word. They want a Majlis that builds this rail-track so that the administration becomes obliged to move forward on this basis. The people want these things.
Another point is that I have been saying for some time that you should be wary of infiltrators. However, some people became furious for no reason. There is no reason to be furious. After the nuclear negotiations came to an end, the Americans had a plan for Iran and a plan for the region. This was clear for us and it became clear to others as well. They had a plan for Iran and they continue to have one. They had a plan for the region and they continue to have one. And they are working hard on these plans. They know who has stood up against their vicious goals in the region. They know this perfectly. Well, what does the enemy do when he has a plan for the country? He uses infiltrators. "Infiltrator" does not necessarily mean a person who has received money in order to work in such and such an organization, knowing perfectly what they are doing. Sometimes, an infiltrator is an infiltrator without himself knowing it.
Imam (God's paradise be upon him) said that sometimes, the enemy's words are heard indirectly through the mouths of some respectable people. Imam (r.a.) was vigilant. He was experienced. When the enemy says and wants something, he uses different instruments. By using several intermediaries, he does something to make his words come out of the mouth of a decent person who has neither received money from him nor given him any promise.
Have we not seen such things already? Have we not experienced such things already? Did we not see that a member of our Islamic Consultative Majlis accused the Islamic Republic of lying? He said that it is 10, 13 years now that we have been lying to the world. He said this in the podium of the Islamic Consultative Majlis! He said this in a public minbar! Well, he was saying the enemy's words. The enemy was saying to us that we are lying. Now, one of us shows up and says that the Islamic Republic is lying! Is he not an infiltrator? Most probably, he himself is not aware of this.
At that time, we had a Majlis that was engaged in a heated and difficult nuclear negotiation. This happened at a time when our current honorable President was the head of the negotiating team. They were negotiating with the other sides in a diligent and powerful manner. They were arguing with and, in fact, fighting against the other sides so that they could establish Iran's claim. However, they [some members of the Majlis] proposed a triple-emergency bill in the Majlis so that they could establish the other side's claim. At that time, the head of the negotiating team - our current honorable President - complained by saying, "We are fighting there, but these gentlemen are proposing a bill in favor of the enemy."
Well, this is infiltration. If not infiltration, what is it then? Perhaps, infiltration appears in other forms that some people become agitated as soon as we speak about infiltration. They complain, "Did you speak about infiltration again?" Yes, we should be wary of infiltration. So, the enemy is trying to infiltrate. Now, who should be wary of this? Both the people, and officials, politicians and political personalities should be wary of the enemy infiltration in a vigilant manner. It is even necessary for the latter to show more vigilance. They should take care not to let what the enemy wants to happen. When you see that the enemy is saying something with the purpose of creating division - for example, when he makes complimentary remarks about you - he wants to create doubt. Well, the enemy is not your friend. When you see that the enemy is using this method and this trick, you should express your disagreement with him immediately and without any hesitation. You should say to him that you do not want what he says. You who say that the enemy is trying to create discord by doing this should not allow the minds of the people to become doubtful. These things should receive attention.
Let us go back to Imam's (r.a.) statements. He used to say that when the enemy makes complimentary remarks about you, you should doubt your behavior and your actions and you should see what mistake you have made that the enemy likes and that has prompted him to praise you. These are the Revolution's guidelines. We should act in this manner. We should move forward in this manner. We should not show negligence. Managing the country is not an easy task. Leading a people who are so great and who enjoy such greatness and courage is not a task that can be carried out with one, two bits of work. We should be careful. We should be careful and we should move forward with open eyes and with firm determination in the face of the enemy. This was another important point that I wanted to raise.
Another point is that we should not use the enemy's political discourse. In particular, I would like to address this issue to our honorable friends and brothers who have different political, governmental and non-governmental jobs. You should not use the enemy's discourse. From the very first day, the enemies of the Revolution used the discourse of "extremists" and "moderates". They used to say that such and such a person and orientation is "extremist" and such and such an orientation is "moderate". In those days, Imam was the most extremist person in their eyes. Today too, this humble person is the most extremist person from their viewpoint.
"Moderation" is a nice term, but Islam does not speak in this manner. We should understand Islamic teachings, at least. Islam advocates the middle way and "wasat": "Thus, have We made of you an Ummah that moves on the middle path" [The Holy Quran, 2: 143]. But what is "wasat" in Islam? Is wasat the opposite of extremism? No, wasat is the opposite of deviation: "On the right and left there are misleading paths. Only the middle way is the right path" [Nahjul Balaghah, Sermon 16]. This is the word of Nahjul Balaghah. The middle way is the straight path, the path of a road. If you deviate from this straight path - whether to the left or to the right - this is not a middle way. So, it is not extremism that stands against the middle way, rather it is deviation that does so. A person who deviates from the straight path and from the road is not a person who takes the middle way. However, on a road, some people walk faster and some walk more slowly. Walking fast on "siratul mustaqeem" is not a bad thing! "Be you foremost in seeking forgiveness from your Lord" [The Holy Quran, 57: 21].
You should move ahead of others on this straight path. Today, those who speak about extremism outside the borders of the country have an ulterior motive and they are seeking a specific purpose. Our friends and brothers inside the country should take care not to repeat what they pursue. Those who speak about extremism mean people who are more determined and steadfast on the path of the Revolution. They call hezbollahis extremists. And from their viewpoint, a moderate is a person who submits to them. This is the meaning of extremism and moderation in the political literature of America, England and other such countries: an extremist is a person who is committed to the Revolution and a moderate is a person who gives in to their wishes.
Now, who gives in to them? Fortunately, they themselves acknowledge that we have no moderates in Iran and that everyone is an extremist. This is a completely correct claim. Among the people of Iran, no one advocates dependence on them. Sometimes, there is some negligence and slip-up and some people make mistakes, but the majority of the people of Iran advocate and follow the Revolution and they persist in doing so. They call this "extremism". So, why should we repeat their words? They call DAESH extremist as well. Is DAESH extremist? No, DAESH is deviant. It is deviant from Islam, from the Holy Quran and from the straight path. We do not have extremists in this sense. Therefore, they should take care not to use the discourse that the enemy uses and not to highlight what he has in mind.
I want to raise another point. This is the last one. Dear brothers, dear sisters, my dear children, youth, whatever choice you make, you have made it for yourselves. It is you yourselves who will witness the result of your good choices and it is you yourselves who will witness the result of the bad choices that you make with negligence. This is the nature of the work. You are doing something voluntarily and at will. Therefore, you should try to do it correctly. If you do it correctly and precisely, you will gain two advantages: one is that Allah the Exalted will be satisfied with you because of carrying out the task correctly and another is that the result will most probably be a good one. Even if we carry out a task with attention and precision, the result might not turn out to be good, but the first reward will be there.
When you carry out a task with precision and with insight, Allah the Exalted will accept it although one might have made a mistake in it. However, if you carry it out in a careless way, Allah the Exalted will be dissatisfied and the possibility for it to be in line with the truth will decrease as well. When you want to make a choice, first you should know what your choice is. You should know it. You should make sure of their [candidates] promises, their commitment, their loyalty to the Revolution, their resistance on the path of the Revolution, their determination and willpower, their courage and their fearlessness. It is only then that you should vote for them. This is the case whether with the Islamic Consultative Majlis elections or with the Assembly of Experts elections. It makes no difference. Both of them are important. I have spoken about the significance of each before.
And when you cannot know, you should not say that you will not vote, rather you should go to and ask those whose piety, commitment and insight you are confident about. This is the solution. So, the path, the goal and the duty and responsibility are clear. This task is a great task. When you carry out a great and divine task correctly, then God will help you: "if you help the cause of Allah, He will help you" [The Holy Quran, 47: 7]. When you walk on the path of divine assistance, Allah the Exalted will definitely help you.
Should this happen, the result of the elections will - by Allah's favor - be one that is in the interests of the country no matter what it is. And you should know that I firmly believe that despite all the efforts that the enemy is making - throughout the past 37 years, the enemy has been trying hard to deliver a blow to the Revolution, but the Revolution and the country have moved forward despite his wishes - from now on too, Allah the Exalted will ordain the final victory for you people of Iran and for our country. God willing, you will achieve results and Allah the Exalted will defeat your enemies. By Allah's grace, the enemy will not be able to deliver any blow - whatsoever - to this Revolution and to this Islamic system.
I ask Allah the Exalted to raise the position of our dear martyrs and our magnanimous Imam (r.a.) who opened up this path for us and I ask the God of the world to bestow success on the people of Iran in all their affairs, particularly the one that they will face in two days, God willing.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings


