
<meta year="2004" title="Leader's Speech at the Graduation Ceremony of Army Cadets"/>
I congratulate you, the dear youngsters, and your families and the Islamic Republic Army on your graduation. I also express my sincere gratitude to all the instructors, directors and commanders that provided this opportunity and made this possible.
Every year, I attend the graduation ceremony of army cadets with the intention of honoring the status of science, valor and militarism based on spiritual and moral values, which a group of our most talented and brilliant youngsters learn at these scientific and research centers and which they use as the basis of their perseverance in the years ahead.
It is from among you the young people that top generals and military servicemen who defend and save their country under sensitive and perilous circumstances will emerge in the future.
Many a time a heavenly hero,
Brings honor to a whole army.
Infusing his soul into an arrow,
He grants his country utmost glory.
The valorous servicemen who defend their nation and country as well as their faith and values in the face of aggression waged by enemies emerge from among these same young people.
Militarism from the viewpoint of materialism is different from the militarism that is defined by the Islamic ideology. From a materialistic viewpoint, militarism is tantamount to lack of mercy and clemency, toughness and blind obedience without any awareness and insight. Furthermore, from this viewpoint, a military serviceman is a rigid, soulless and inflexible being just like his own weapon, a tool in the hands of those wielding wealth and power.
However, the Islamic ideology defines militarism quite differently. From an Islamic viewpoint, a military serviceman is someone who defends some lofty values wholeheartedly and with awareness and insight. He sacrifices his life to defend noble human and divine values as well as the independence, honor, dignity and identity of his nation.
According to the Islamic ideology, military servicemen are called mujahids. Jihad means persevering and striving in the way of lofty values. This is why jihad has been described as a door among the doors of heaven.
Today, you can see the manifestations of materialistic militarism in the world. Presently, in addition to formally registered U.S. and British troops in Iraq, there are also tens of thousands of mercenaries in that country who are wearing their military uniforms only for money. They have no respect for men, women, the young, the elderly or the privacy of families. They open fire on anyone indiscriminately.
This is the meaning of militarism based on a materialistic logic. Those who are killed on this path are considered wasted, like animals that are disposed of after they perish. There is no ensuing honor and glory.
However, in the case of a military serviceman who engages in a combat to defend his country and nation, to repel an aggression waged by expansionist powers and to promote justice and righteousness, his combat in itself is of great worth. Thus, even if he is unknown and dies anonymously, the angels in heaven will pay tribute to him. He is alive: 
"And reckon not those who are killed in Allah's way as dead; nay, they are alive (and) are provided sustenance from their Lord." (Holy Qur'an, 3: 169) 
They are alive eternally and are a source of inspiration to others. When an army holds this belief and attitude, it will become invincible.
A number of Lebanese youngsters with the weapon of faith and without any advanced sophisticated military equipment did something that the equipped armies of Arab countries had not been able to do. They overpowered the armed-to-the-teeth troops of the Zionist regime and subjected them to disgrace and humiliation.
They did not have nuclear weapons, or modern tanks, or ultramodern aircraft. What they had was the weapon of faith, self-confidence and reliance on the overwhelming power of the Almighty. Consequently, they forced an army that was equipped with modern weapons to retreat from their homeland. This has been the secret of the victory of believers in the course of the history of Islam.
Faith by itself is not enough. It should be accompanied by pious deeds, which have various definitions and forms in different arenas. When a nation is threatened, utilizing all the capabilities to neutralize the threats and repel the aggressors is considered a pious deed. When faith is accompanied by pious deeds, victory is achieved by nations.
The Islamic Republic has greatly strengthened faith and belief in the Iranian society. This is what has worried our enemies, and their claims are only lies and accusations. You, the devoted young servicemen, should combine knowledge with faith, valor, innovation, creativity and initiative. Make the most of your present opportunities by learning seriously and by putting what you have learned into practice.
The Islamic Republic has posed obstacles to the expansionist goals of the domineering powers and stood up to their hegemony. Over the past 25 years, despite all the plots and hostilities of the enemies, the Islamic Republic has become stronger and more powerful because of the deep faith of the Iranian nation. You should highly value your faith.
You are fortunate to live at the present juncture of our country's history. This is due to your good luck, since the ground is now prepared for your perseverance and progress. One day this country was under dark dictatorial rule. The situation got even worse what those dictators began to serve the aliens and enemies of this nation. The Iranian people went through very hard times.
In those days the Iranian military servicemen were humiliated by foreigners. Even low-ranking foreign servicemen who were posted in this country gave orders to senior Iranian military officers and humiliated them. The enemies plundered the natural resources of our country and also insulted and humiliated this great and honorable nation.
It is very difficult for proud and zealous individuals to live under such circumstances, and those Iranian servicemen who could not bear those conditions quit the armed forces. However, today you can see that the aliens have no influence on this country, and the Iranian people would never allow the outside powers to once again dominate their country.
We are standing up to the enemies with trust in Almighty Allah and with self-confidence and reliance on our nation. We praise the grandeur and nobility of our nation and are proud of our talented youngsters. We are sure that the great Iranian people, including devoted and faithful men and women and brave youth, will prevent the enemies from gaining a foothold in this country under whatever circumstances.
Today, being a military serviceman under the Islamic system is a source of pride, and you should be proud of your membership in the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic. You should try to be dedicated and faithful servicemen and strive in the way of the Almighty. Those who strive for the sake of Allah are always prepared. You should equip yourselves with science and technology and train your minds.
You should also try to make the most of the experience that was obtained over the years of the Sacred Defense. During those years, our air force, the Islamic Republic Army, the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) and Basij volunteer forces, despite their limited materiel and in spite of the economic sanction that had been imposed on our country, managed to repel an aggression which had apparently been waged by the Iraqi Ba'thist regime against our country but which was backed by both the Western and Eastern powers of the day, the powers that extended all kinds of assistance, including military intelligence, to the Iraqi regime.
Through the great efforts and sacrifices that were made by our youngsters and Basij volunteer forces as well as by the IRGC, the Islamic Republic Army, brave air force pilots and other competent servicemen of various branches of the armed forces, the Iranian nation repelled the aggression and gained victory over the enemy.
Today, you should become familiar with and make use of the experience that was obtained from the Sacred Defense. Try to make the most of your membership in the Islamic Republic Army.
We honor the memory of Martyr Sattari, who was the founder of this military academy, and other revered martyrs of the air force, the Islamic Republic Army, the IRGC and Basij volunteer forces. We pray for divine grace and favor on all of them.
I also pray to Almighty Allah to bestow success on you, the dear young servicemen, and assist you all in performing your responsibilities.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings 
