
<meta year="2004" title="Leader's Address at LEF Military Academy"/>
I express my felicitations over the Week of Law Enforcement Force to every member of the LEF staff, especially to you, the dear cadets who have just graduated, and to your honorable instructors and commanding officers of different ranks, and to the esteemed LEF Commander. I hope the week and the occasion will also prove auspicious for the Iranian nation. 
One of the major duties of the LEF personnel is to maintain order and security in society, which are quite essential for the ordinary life of every citizen. As regards the great divine blessings bestowed on the people, Almighty Allah says in the Holy Qur'an: "Who feeds them against hunger and gives them security against fear." (106: 4)
It is clear from this verse that hunger and insecurity are harmful to society, and that efforts should be made to maintain security and eradiate hunger from society. 
Fortunately, the Law Enforcement Force has made considerable progress with respect to organization and discipline, applying modern methods, establishing cordial ties with the public and deciding on its priorities, and this progress is a cause of pleasure. 
Indeed, when there is a correct attitude toward the issue of order and security and when this attitude is accompanied by strong management, appropriate scientific planning and incessant efforts, the outcome will be pleasant for the nation and bring honor to the Law Enforcement Force. 
Fortunately, today we can see that the LEF is observing these important criteria in its performance. Although the progress that has already been made by the force is quite encouraging, we believe that the LEF is capable of making further progress and greater improvement. 
We are grateful to the Almighty that the Iranian people are talented, creative, dynamic and capable of making great progress, as they have proved this in different areas and spheres of activities. The present condition of the LEF is by no means comparable with its condition in the past. This indicates the progress that has been made. It also shows that further progress is possible. What should be done is to pinpoint flaws and shortcomings carefully and take effective measures to rectify them in order to bring about further improvement and progress.
What do the people expect of the Law Enforcement Force? They expect the LEF to be firm, powerful, alert, honest, trustworthy, quick-acting, polite and understanding. You have already shown that you possess these qualities to a great extent.
I would like to advise every one of you, the dear youngsters, and your teachers and instructors as well as every member of the LEF staff to highly value your opportunity to serve the public and to maintain and promote security, which is one of the greatest blessings that a society may enjoy.
Thank God, today our country is one of the most secure countries in the world. The policy followed by the arrogant and interventionist powers is to foment political, moral and cultural insecurity in other countries. In fact, the mere presence of alien powers in other countries is a cause of insecurity and unrest.
The Iranian nation has decided with firm intention and determination to prevent the interference of the arrogant powers in its internal affairs and instead enforce its own will. Every state organ is actively performing its duties in this regard. You are also familiar with your responsibilities, and you are expected to carry them out in the best possible manner.
Our nation is known in the world to be opposed to oppression, domination and an unequal footing in international relations. It should also become known as a creative, innovative and dynamic nation with initiative in all areas, including the military area. Today, you have the opportunity to display your creativity and initiative. We are pleased that we are noticing signs of innovation, dynamism and progress in various fields.
However, the Iranian people feel sorrow over the unfortunate and deplorable situation in some regional and neighboring countries. Today, you can see how the occupying forces are treating the ordinary people in Iraq. While claiming to be pursuing terrorists, they are massacring the innocent people. How can the frequent bombing of the Iraqi cities of Falluja, Samarra, al-Sadr Township and other cities be justified as targeting terrorists?
Is this the meaning of fighting terrorism? Are the innocent and defenseless children, women and other individuals who are being killed in these blind bombings terrorists? Has terrorism been uprooted or fomented through this indiscriminate massacre? 
Even if the known terrorist organizations are not under the influence of U.S. and Israeli intelligence services - although if someone claims that they are, it cannot be said that he is absolutely wrong - at least it is quite clear that aggression, intimidation and bullying, bloodshed and disregarding the rights of nations in their own countries would only encourage popular resistance and foment an inclination toward terrorism among these same nations.
The ugly treatment of the Iraqi people has a duplicate in the occupied Palestine. You can see how the Zionists are treating the Palestinian people. They bomb the Palestinian refugee camps, pound the homes of Palestinians with artillery fire, destroy their farms and shed the blood of tens of defenseless Palestinian men, women and children on the pretext of chasing Palestinian activists.
Those in the world who are turning a blind eye to all these outrageous crimes cannot claim that they support human rights. Besides, they cannot be hopeful of countering rising terrorism in the world, as they themselves are fomenting terrorism. 
The wrong behavior of the arrogant and bullying powers conveys the lesson to the philanthropic individuals that power should be combined with morality; a strong arm and compassion are both needed. There should be enforcement of the law with regard to law-breakers and kindness and benevolence toward those whose rights have been violated and who need legal support and security.
The great, honorable and brave Iranian nation favors pious deeds and advocates law and order. The law-breakers and violators are few in our society. Those violating the law and criminals, who can be compared to malignant cells in the body of society, should be firmly dealt with. But the Law Enforcement Force should be kind and compassionate toward the great majority of the population who are faithful and dedicated and who fully observe the law.
I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow His grace and favor on our dear youngsters, make the Law Enforcement Force more efficient and more successful in performing its duties and grant our nation further honor, dignity and success in all arenas.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
