
<meta year="2004" title="Leader's Speech on the Feast of Mab'ath"/>
I express my felicitations over the auspicious feast of Mab'ath, one of the most glorious Islamic feasts, to the entire Muslim Ummah, the honorable Iranian nation and you, the esteemed audience and dear guests.
The formation of the Islamic Ummah with its special and unique characteristics was one of the blessings of this divine appointment. The Islamic Ummah is not defined as merely a group of Muslims gathering around an ideological pivot, but the Ummah, as it was designed by the Holy Prophet based on Qur'anic teachings, means a group of Muslims who are endowed with knowledge, morality, wisdom and justness.
The outcome of such qualities is the attainment of mankind to the peak of perfection. The Ummah, which is the manifestation of Islamic training and upbringing, was founded by the Holy Prophet of Islam under the most adverse circumstances.
Following his divine appointment, when Prophet Muhammad (peace and greetings be upon him and his infallible household) voiced the call for monotheism, the world had been plunged into oppression, immorality, disbelief and all kinds of corruption. The Holy Prophet performed this great task in a miraculous manner over a period of 13 years. After that period, the first cornerstones of the Islamic Ummah were laid in Medina. 
The factors that turned this rather small Muslim community in Medina into the great and powerful Islamic Ummah in the 4th and 5th century A.H. were firm belief, clear and comprehensive teachings and precepts, strong will and resolve as well as incessant striving and perseverance.
These were the main factors that changed the few-thousand strong Muslim community in Medina during the first years after hegira into a great and powerful community and an abundant source of knowledge and wisdom in the world in the 4th and 5th century A.H. 
Later, in the course of its numerous ups and downs, whenever the Muslim Ummah neglected the lofty Islamic teachings, it experienced defeat and regression. Whenever it disregarded knowledge, morality, spirituality, dignity, unity and, above all, justice, it failed to make progress and suffered retrogression and decline, so much so that the aggressive and expansionist powers managed to dismember the Muslim Ummah, pit Muslim nations against one another, dominate them and plunder their resources. 
In the contemporary era, the return to Islamic teachings and awakening of Muslim nations began some decades ago and the banner of monotheism was once again hoisted. This movement culminated in the establishment of the Islamic Republic in this sensitive part of the Islamic world. Our Islamic government has infused Muslim nations with a sense of dignity and Islamic identity.
Today we are facing the same challenge that was experienced by the Muslim Ummah in the past. A full-scale war has currently been waged against Muslim nations in order to suppress their Islamic movement and awakening.
The arrogant and aggressive powers, which are coveting the vast natural resources of the Islamic world - this is even acknowledged by themselves, have waged the war on the pretext of promoting freedom and democracy, but they actually intend to subvert Islam, which is the main factor contributing to the dignity of Muslim Ummah, and conquer all centers of resistance, so that there may be no obstacle to the expansionist powers in the region.
Whenever Muslim nations showed weakness and did not act firmly, the enemies were encouraged to move forward and gain ground. Today different parts of the Islamic world like Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan are suffering from afflictions and disasters. Many Islamic countries are being threatened by the arrogant and aggressive powers. By clinging to Islam, Muslim nations will be able to overcome their weaknesses; they will be able to resist their enemies.
What the Islamic world urgently needs today is unity. The hearts of Muslims is filled with grief and sorrow over the crimes and atrocities that are being committed by the arrogant powers and enemies of Islam in Iraq, Palestine and Afghanistan. The Islamic states should try to utilize this deep and bitter grief as a concentrated force against the enemies of Islam.
The United States, an arrogant power which is evil incarnate and which is doing great mischief in the Islamic world, will be vulnerable only in the face of one thing, namely the power of nations. It is possible to prepare nations for resistance against the arrogant powers by imparting awareness to them, drawing their attention to their interests, dispelling their illusions if they have any, and informing them of facts and realities.
The logic of the arrogant powers is never the logic of dialogue and fair compromise. It is the logic of force, intimidation and misuse of power, and you have seen its numerous instances across the world.
Today U.S. troops are entering other countries on the pretext of fighting terrorism, but they are bombing their residential areas and killing their defenseless men, women and children. They are committing all these crimes on the false excuse that they are countering terrorism.
What does terrorism mean? Does it mean anything except the unlawful use of force to achieve a certain goal? Is the U.S. doing anything except this in Iraq? This is why the United Stated itself is considered to be spreading terrorism in the world.
The U.S. presence in Iraq is an arrogance-inspired oppressive act of aggression. Every day there are reports that tens of Iraqi citizens have been killed or injured by U.S. troops in different Iraqi cities.
Palestine lies at the heart of the Islamic world. The Zionists have been oppressing and pressuring the Palestinian people through the unlawful use of force and their illegitimate authority for nearly sixty years. You can see what is currently happening in Palestine. Is terrorism anything different from what has been and is being done by the Zionists?
Those spreading terrorism are now interfering in the internal affairs of Islamic countries on the pretext of countering terrorism. Today the Islamic world should stand united in the face of the aggression waged by the United States and its allies. Muslim nations should realize that in order to neutralize the threats posed by the United States, which is evil incarnate, and other arrogant powers there is no way but resistance, since what these powers are aiming at is absolute domination of the Islamic world, especially of the Middle East region. 
What is worthy of mention is that by standing firm, nations can thwart the arrogant powers and blunt their swords. This has been proved by our experience over the past decades and is also corroborated by what we are witnessing in Palestine and Iraq.
U.S. troops in Iraq have bogged down in a quagmire. The Zionists feel helpless in the face of a small group of Palestinians who have nothing expect trust in Almighty Allah as well as a strong will to achieve independence and reject oppression. The Zionists have been repressing the Palestinians for years, but have not been able to undermine their will to achieve their objectives. This is tantamount to defeat for a power that is counting on its arms and weapons.
During the first years after the divine appointment of the Holy Prophet of Islam, Almighty Allah prepared the hearts and souls of Muslims for embarking on difficult tasks with His grace and favor. 
"He it is Who sends His blessings on you, and (so do) His angels, so that He may bring you forth out of utter darkness into the light; and he is Merciful to the believers." (the Holy Qur'an, 33: 43)
If Muslims and believers forego trivial enticements and stand up to atheism, corruption and arrogance, the divine favor will be bestowed on them and Almighty Allah will grant them assistance, as the Almighty did with regard to the Iranian nation.
Nobody could believe that at the heart of the Islamic world, where the United States and Zionists exerted the most influence, the power of Islam would manifest itself in the form of the Islamic Republic. This sapling grew, blossomed and thrived. By the favor and power of the Almighty, it will become stronger and more powerful day by day, despite all the hostilities of the enemies of Islam. This is an experience before us.
I pray to Almighty Allah to bestow strong will and resolve on Muslims so that they may follow their path with energy and determination, overcome the existing problems and bring about ultimate victory and dignity for Islam.
I hope Almighty Allah will assist the oppressed Iraqi, Palestinian and Afghan nations and also other Muslim nations and save them from the evil of the wicked and the devils. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings 
