
<meta year="2004" title="Nurses are angels of mercy for patients"/>
I would like to welcome you dear nurses who are truly the angles of mercy for all sick people and those who look after them in society. Also, I express my congratulations on the occasion of Nurses Day which is coincident with the birthday anniversary of the self-sacrificing lady of Islam, Zaynab al-Kubra. Like you, that great personality had the most difficult task on the scene of Ashura which was nursing children, the weak, women and those who had no shelter.
Today, what I want to say in this meeting - thankfully, I managed to meet with you today - is about the profession of nursing and the responsibility of everyone, whether the people or officials, towards those who practice this very difficult profession.
I would like to say something which is clear to you who are nurses. Many of the people know it as well, but the public understanding of society and the general culture of our people should correctly understand the fact that nursing is of utmost importance for preserving the health of society. Even if the best physicians and surgeons carry out their duty towards patients in the best way possible, but they are not looked after by nurses, then what that qualified physician and surgeon did will be of no use. The role of nursing in preserving the health of patients and helping them to recuperate is a primary role. It is equivalent to the role of a qualified physician. Many people are not aware of this fact. This is why they ignore the value that should be placed on nurses. They do not pay attention to the weight and value of nurses.
Another point which again you know better than everyone else but which the people and officials should understand and pay attention to is that nursing is one of the most difficult tasks in terms of the mental and physical pressures that are exerted on a nurse. Sitting beside patients, being with them all the time, listening to their complaints, behaving towards them in a kind way, smiling at them and helping them - with one's actions, behavior and hospitality - to forget about the pains that they feel during their treatment require iron patience. Nurses have such a condition. There are patients who are in great pain, who are losing hope of living and who have no access to anyone and anywhere - particularly, the children, those who suffer from a chronic disease and those who are receiving intensive care. Notice what a great pressure looking after such people exerts on one's soul, body and nerves. Notice what a great resource of patience, endurance, sacrifice, tolerance and good behavior is necessary for nurses so that they are able to look after patients.
On the contrary, the behavior of patients towards nurses is not always kind. Sometimes, they behave in a harsh way towards nurses. Besides patients, their relatives and those who visit them sometimes behave in a complaining and critical way if services are delayed a little bit. They sometimes behave harshly and they sometimes shout at nurses. Enduring such things is very difficult. The difficulty of nursing is not physical. This difficulty is not similar to working with a pickax or working in the difficult environment of a mine, but it is more difficult than such professions in terms of mental pressures. All those people who determine job difficulty should take this point into consideration. Moreover, nurses are away from home, their spouse and their children. At nights, during the day, on Norouz holidays and on Fridays and other holidays, they are away from home while other people are resting and going on their holiday. Nurses cannot leave patients and the hospital. Therefore, these matters should receive attention. Doing hard work, being there all the time and being away from one's home increase the difficulty of this job. In my opinion, our people and all those who are interested in the fate of patients and the health of the country should pay attention to nurses, behave in a kind way towards them and attach great significance to them.
This should be done by everyone whether officials or the people. The culture of society should appreciate the significance of nursing and know its difficulties. This was the issue that I wanted and still want the people and officials to pay attention to. Officials can pay attention to it within the scope of executive capabilities - for example, they can consider the possibility of employing new nurses, attend to their financial problems and all other matters which are expected to be dealt with. They should look at the issue from this angle.
What I want to say to nurses is that, as we said, your job is undoubtedly difficult and you feel it a lot more than we do. But in divine judgment, the scales of difficulty and reward are always equal. It is not at all possible that a task which is more difficult than others receives an equal or less reward. In divine judgment, everything is based on calculation. The phrase "misqal al-dharah" that you have read in the Holy Quran means "as heavy as a particle". Dharah means those particles that you do not see with your eyes unless a ray of light shines inside the room. Then you will see these flowing particles in the air. How much does one of them weigh? The divine scales weigh every particle of your actions. Therefore, if you do a good deed, it will be calculated by divine scales and when you do it with pure intentions, for God and with spiritual and divine motives, that particle of good deed will gradually turn into a mountain of thawab before Allah the Exalted. You should adopt such an outlook towards your job.
As we said, nurses are angels of mercy for patients. When a patient is completely alone and when even their spouse, children and parents are not by their side, they pin their hopes on nurses after God. Under such circumstances, it is nurses who attend to their pains, problems and physical and psychological needs like heavenly angels of mercy. Of course, it is possible that no eye sees your efforts. No one sees many of your efforts and pains. Sometimes, one single smile from you revives a depressed patient. Who sees this smile? Who pays attention to it? Who allocates a monetary and financial reward to this smile of yours? No one does this, but those angels who record our actions see them. Divine calculation and divine judgment see your smile. If you frown instead of smile, they see it as well. No good deed and no evil action escape the sharp eyes of divine calculators and divine judgment. Therefore, you should appreciate the value of this profession and this valuable service. If others do not appreciate, you should definitely do so. This is a very important profession.
There is a narration which says, "A person who attends to a patient is like a person who swims in divine mercy". Some people might be surprised at this and they might ask, "Why is attending to a patient so special?" You yourselves who are aware of patients' needs and the effect of your job understand why such a great reward is specified for a nurse and caretaker. It is because the effect of what you do is priceless and it is above ordinary calculations.
Boosting patients' morale is sometimes more vital and effective than giving drugs to them. It is you who give them this high morale. We read in prayers: "Oh God, I ask you for the requirements of your mercy" [Bihar al-Anwar, Volume 83, page 98]. Divine mercy is not bestowed on people without any calculation and reason. One should supplicate before God so that He gives us the requirements of mercy. This means that we should carry out those tasks which bring about the requirements of mercy. Then, God will bestow His mercy on us. This profession is the best one in this regard and it is very valuable and precious. This was the point that I wanted you to pay attention to. I wanted you to know what a valuable task you are carrying out.
The point that I would like to discuss with officials - Dr. Pezeshkian discussed it with me in this meeting and what he said is completely correct - is that decision-making officials of the country should distinguish this profession from others and find a new solution for it. Nurses' employment, internship and rest are issues that influence the efficiency of nursing. If the role of nursing is so important, then a tired and exhausted nurse and a nurse who works two, three shifts nonstop - because he or she has no other option - cannot play this role. Those nurses who have to work while they are tired, impatient, exhausted and dissatisfied cannot play this role anymore. Nurses should be energetic, fresh, prepared and willing to render services. They should have the knowledge which enables them to render services. It is officials who should prepare the ground for this to happen. Of course, there are definitely some limitations for officials. Neither you nor I and anyone else should expect the administration to do something beyond the scope of its capabilities. The administration has a responsibility towards all the people in the country and all individuals from different social backgrounds. But within the scope of their capabilities, executive officials should make all their efforts so that they can carry out this great responsibility and render this valuable service in a way that it befits this profession.
We should ask Allah the Exalted to help and bestow success on us. If Allah the Exalted bestows on us - wherever we are - the opportunity to render services, this will be the greatest happiness for us. We should ask God to help us carry out our responsibilities wherever we are. I hope that your services and the services of all dear nurses receive divine blessings and mercy and that the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) pays special attention to them.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

