
<meta year="2004" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with the Clergy of Ayatollah Mujtahidi Seminary"/>
Today, I am very lucky and happy to have the opportunity to meet with you religious and knowledge-seeking youth who are active in the arena of acquiring religious knowledge and understanding. Since long ago, I have been very willing to visit and see up close your warm seminary which has thankfully been founded with great efforts in Tehran - the establishment of an Islamic seminary in Tehran is unusual. But today, I have found the opportunity to meet with you in this place and see you up close. Long before I met with Mr. Mujtahidi, I had known his Islamic seminary and I had heard about its name and popularity. He made great efforts and established a real Islamic seminary in Tehran.
This has been a rare and unique phenomenon. His love of and interest in this task and his sincere efforts attracted divine assistance and he managed to carry it out. Thankfully, this Islamic seminary has brought about certain blessings. Since many years ago, this seminary - which is based on love, enthusiasm, effort and diligence - has been producing outstanding and honorable scholars and ulama. These scholars and ulama have been working in different areas. We should appreciate the value of this. Today too, this seminary is reliant on you dear clergy and on those outstanding ulama who have the responsibility of teaching in this seminary.
What is important is that if there is an influential cultural orientation for channeling the efforts and movements of a society - one that is developing and that enjoys lofty scientific, social and worldly ideals - then this society will achieve salvation and happiness. But if there is not such a cultural, religious, divine and spiritual orientation in a society which is developing in scientific arenas, then the result will be the current situation in advanced western societies. The more these societies make progress, the farther away they will be from salvation, human values and justice.
Today, you can see the peak of materialistic civilizations - in terms of science, wealth, military power and political and diplomatic diligence - in America. America is a country which enjoys great wealth. It enjoys a legendary military power and an extraordinary political dynamism, but the American society stands at the peak of separation from human values and virtues and from spirituality and morality.
This has not been witnessed in any other society. Today, the most hideous, immoral, decadent and socially deviant acts have become legal and acceptable in this advanced society and in other similar societies. All human societies commit sins, but if a certain sin becomes legal and socially acceptable, if it is justified and invested in, this is an unprecedented deviation. Today, this deviation is clearly and visibly seen in American society which is known as the most advanced scientific, industrial, financial, economic and political society. You may see a man or a woman with a very neat and decent appearance. If anyone sees this man on the street and if anyone sees this woman in a store, they will not have any feeling of distrust towards their moral behavior. But the same man and the same woman turn into a ferocious wolf inside the Abu Ghraib prison in Baghdad.
Beneath the neat appearance of this man and woman who have used perfume and who have worn ties, there is a wild dog. The photos which were published from Abu Ghraib prison shook and awakened even the most ignorant layers of western societies. The torturer was a woman. A woman should normally have feminine and delicate feelings. And the tortured were several Iraqi men. What was their crime? Their crime was being suspected of something. They were tortured to a disgusting extent.
This society which has committed such crimes is an advanced scientific, industrial and civilized society with extravagant claims such as the leadership of human beings. When there is no spiritual guidance and no influential and healthy cultural orientation in a society, it will lead to such results. This was the great sin of the western civilization.
It is said that intellectual and broad-minded Islamists are opposed to the western civilization. Well, western enemies distort these things. They pretend that these Islamists are opposed to knowledge and progress. This is while the opposition of believers in Islam to the western civilization is not because of their scientific progress, their fight against superstitious beliefs and their effort to involve science in all social relationships. Rather, this opposition is because of lack of spirituality and morality in this materialistic world.
Of course, it was the destiny of the west to suffer from such a disaster. Naturally, the clergy whom the west was faced with before the European Renaissance, would have such reactions. These clergy had wrong thoughts, they were backward and they had hostile and completely irrational prejudices. When they put up an opposition to knowledge and progress, when they burned human beings alive on the basis of absurd accusations - this goes back to two, three centuries ago and it is not related to ancient times - and when absurd superstitions dominated all intellectual and spiritual aspects of Europe and the church of those days, this would naturally lead to the current situation in Europe. This dragged Europe towards such a precipice.
You youth will see the day when this advanced western civilization is destroyed and annihilated because of lack of spirituality. On that day, it will fall from the heights of power and capability - which it enjoys today - to the depths of humiliation and incapability. The products of history do not show themselves quickly and soon. These products are seen when there is no cure for them and this day will come for the western civilization. Today, western intellectuals themselves are giving warnings for this. This is not something which I - a seminarian - am saying from a distance. This is not the case. This is what they themselves say and what they themselves have noticed. Of course, we have noticed this as well.
The westerners acquired limitless wealth through science and they made the most of underground and god-given resources. They also went into space and they discovered the nature of things. They did many things in the area of scientific progress and they made legitimate and illegitimate use of science in order to acquire wealth, gain political power and all other such things. By utilizing science, they colonized other countries and perpetrated different massacres on an international level. During the past century, the Europeans killed millions of people in different wars and in different events. They did not have a major problem in terms of knowledge, but the kind of knowledge which ignores divine guidance, virtue, spirituality and human values and the kind of knowledge which is based on materialistic values and which closes its eyes on the hereafter will lead to such results. 
At first, such knowledge improves the outward appearance of life and it gives us power, wealth and beauty, but in the end, it will lead to such results. And this will continue. "Once in a while, evil shows itself for a moment" [Speaking in Arabic]. You should know that the moral brutality of advanced and civilized societies which know nothing about spirituality will increase on a daily basis. This brutality will push today's western civilization towards a great precipice and it will destroy them. Who should provide spirituality in society and switch on the light of virtue among thick materialistic motives? Who should bridle the wild and unruly horses of selfish desires which drag human beings towards such dangerous arenas? Pure, well-informed, wise, knowledgeable and active clergy should do so. The west did not benefit from such clergy.
If the clergy and ulama benefit from these characteristics in a society, if they have religious expertise, if they enjoy enough piety, self-restraint and courage, if they enter the arena for the sake of God and if they act in a wise and intelligent way, then the more material progress that society achieves, the more spirituality will increase. Under such circumstances, this lack of balance that the west suffers from and that will be its ruin will not happen. You are the youth and teenagers of such religious centers. You can save your country and society, the great Islamic Ummah and even the human community. You should adopt such an outlook towards the arena in which you are working.
This is the right attitude. This does not mean that we clergy did not have any shortcomings and weak points. We had many shortcomings, but the clergy's guild managed to preserve their health and their effort to move on the path of knowledge and piety. They have managed to preserve spirituality. Today, our Islamic country and society is different from what it was in all eras in the past. Similarly, today, the role of clergy is much more prominent than their role in the past. In the past, our clergy were completely separated from the management of society. They were subdued by a group of people who were subdued by others.
Even during the time when Safavid monarchs claimed to support Shia and respected ulama, and even during the time when Fath Ali Shah used to go to Mirza Qomi's house and hold his arm, the clergy were a completely isolated group. Take the case of a current which is moving in a flood-like manner. There is a small bay in a corner as well. The bay is connected to the current, but it exerts no fundamental influence on the current. At that time, the clergy were like this. Not only the clergy but also the whole of religion had the same condition. Today for the first time in the history of our country and even the history of all Islamic countries - the history after the early Islamic era - religion has become a source of power and management. The main criterion is not the existence or non-existence of the clergy. Rather, the main criterion is the existence or non-existence of religion.
Our legislative branch is an Islamic Majlis. That is to say, the main standard for accepting laws is their compatibility with religion. This is achieved through the Guardian Council. Therefore, the executive branch of the country and all arms and hands involved in the management of the country are connected to religion. These are the main characteristics of our society in the present time. This was unprecedented in the past. If you see that the great camp of kufr and arrogance seriously confront these characteristics - in their different forms - it is because of this. They are seriously opposed to the Guardian Council. They are opposed to the Majlis which is Islamic. They are seriously opposed to a president which supports and speaks about Islam. For this reason, they are a hundred percent opposed to the Leadership and Wilayat-ul Faqih. They are opposed to them because they are the main centers for ensuring the Islamic movement and orientation of the system.
If you trace this back in history, you will see that this condition was unprecedented until the early Islamic era. If this country managed to make certain achievements in arenas of material movement and progress, if it managed to achieve scientific, technological and industrial progress, if it managed to achieve powerful international and diplomatic politics, if it managed to improve the economy of society, if it managed to utilize the great sources of wealth under and on the ground - including mineral, agricultural and other such resources - if it managed to benefit from the vast and diverse land of Iran and its important and strategic location and finally if it managed to move in line with international standards of progress, this is the first country and government that has managed to achieve material progress in the shade of the flashing light of virtue and spirituality.
This is a new civilization and it is unprecedented in history. It is a seriously alarming phenomenon for western civilization. Notice what a valuable service you will render to human civilization if you manage to highlight the role of the clergy in this system.
New sciences are very good. We would like to encourage the youth who study in universities to pursue knowledge and research. As you see and hear, I go to universities, I speak to young students and their professors and I encourage them to cross the boundaries of knowledge. They should cross the boundaries, acquire new sciences and produce knowledge. These are things that should be done. We encourage the managers and active personalities of the country to engage in technological, industrial and agricultural work and to produce and increase national wealth. We invest in this task. All these tasks are necessary provided that they are carried out in the best way possible.
If you - who have prepared yourselves for turning on the light of spirituality, righteousness and religion do not exist - not only will all of these achievements be of no value but they will also turn into anti-values. The significance of Islamic seminaries becomes clear when we know this. With this outlook, the task that you are carrying out is more important than all other tasks.
The existence of knowledgeable, broad-minded, intellectual, courageous, well-informed, moral, learned and spiritual clergy in a society which is making progress signifies that achievements will not be utilized on the path of great ignorance, darkness and downfall throughout the course of history. This is the role of you young clergy who seek knowledge and religious teachings. You should appreciate the value of this role because it is very important.
Of course, there are some problems in your way. Today, our clergy and seminarians have many problems. They have material and reputational problems. They have different problems and difficulties, but these are nothing on your path towards this great goal. No group of people have managed to play an influential and permanent role without facing and tackling problems. It is not in the nature of human beings to accomplish a great feat with self-indulgence and by benefiting from absolute comfort. Hardships should be endured. This is adopting an orientation towards divine satisfaction and playing one's part in the happiness of society. Today, Islamic seminaries can develop in a way that they can play a role in the real sense of the word.
Qom Seminary was established in the year 1340 of the lunar calendar - that is to say, 85 years ago - by Hajj Sheikh Abdul Karim Haeri. In the year 1355 - that is to say, 15 years later - it was seemingly destroyed with the demise of its founder. This was the time when Reza Khani power and suppression were at their peak. When the late Agha Sheikh Abdul Karim passed away, the hundred-plus clergy who were in Qom dispersed. During the daytime, they used to go out and debate in the gardens around Qom while they are hungry, poor and afraid. During the night, they returned to Feyziyyah or to their houses. However, from among these wandering, scattered and fearful - of the regime and its power - clergy, who were under great economic, reputational and political pressures, someone like Imam Khomeini (r.a.) emerged. Forty years after the formation of Qom Seminary - that is to say, in the year 1381 - the seminarian movement began. These events are very meaningful. 
Out of these 40 years, several years were spent under such severe circumstances. In Farvardin of the year 1342 of the solar calendar - when the events of Feyziyyah Seminary took place during which the clergy were beaten and thrown down from the rooftop - we went to Imam's (r.a.) house. At that time, I was a young clergyman at your age now. Mohammad Reza's dictatorial regime had crossed swords with Qom Seminary. No one dared go from one side of Eram Street to the other side. I myself witnessed this up close. If someone did that, Shah's commandos would attack and beat him like Shimr. They would take away his turban and tear his clothes. 
In these terrifying conditions, Imam (r.a.) went to his house - the one that exists in Qom now - after maghrib and isha prayers. The clergy and I joined him as well. He reminded us of Reza Khani dictatorship which led to the clergy leaving Qom. He said, "At that time, we lived like that, but they left and we stayed. Today too, they will leave and you will stay". This was Imam's (r.a.) prediction which was based on divine promises. Allah the Exalted has promised that if a group of people show resistance on His path and if they have faith, they will definitely achieve their goal. And divine promises are not lies. Allah the Exalted shows us the path and He takes our hands step by step. When our goal is to work for God, this will happen: "And those who strive in Our cause, We will certainly guide them to our paths" [The Holy Quran, 29: 69]. The main thing is the existence of motivation and faith, entering the arena and showing diligence. Wherever this exists, success will undoubtedly be achieved.
Today, we have managed to witness the results of the great and numerous efforts that we made. And Allah the Exalted has rewarded us for them. The results of our efforts are the establishment of a government on the basis of Islam and the teachings of Ahlul Bayt (greetings be upon them). Is this a minor achievement? Could anyone have imagined that during the time of the absolute domination of material power over the world - when all sorts of colonialist and neocolonialist methods were used in propaganda, political, economic and financial areas to further arrogant interests in this sensitive area of the world - a strong sapling would grow which enjoyed firm roots? Who could have imagined that no storm would be able to harm it in the course of 25 years? This seemed impossible in the normal and ordinary course of events. But it could happen and it happened on the basis of divine power.
In the 20-year strategic plan, we have said that in 20 years, the country should reach this point in terms of material, political, spiritual and cultural progress. If great efforts are put into it, reaching this point will be definite and there is no doubt about this. However, as I said, this movement may and may not be accompanied by divine, religious and seminarian guidance. If it is not accompanied by such guidance, we will be among advanced countries in the world. One, two hundred years ago, others have made these achievements and this is the result. Abu Ghraib and other such prisons, two world wars and the emergence of the ugly face of colonialism in the world are the results of such achievements. But if these achievements are accompanied by religious guidance, then it will be something that is unprecedented in the history of the world.
Civilization, knowledge and material progress accompanied by spirituality, piety, virtue and religious guidance is something which the rest of the world has not experienced. If this happens, we will be on top of advanced countries table as well. Notice how sensitive the role of the clergy and the role of you youth is. Among the people who are present in this meeting and among the thousands of young clergy who are active in Qom Seminary and other Islamic seminaries, there are potentially great ulama. By Allah's favor, history will see them in the future. Among you, there are people who are at Imam's (r.a.) level. They are at the level of great marja taqlids, great mujahids on the path of religion and well-known personalities in the history of religion and spirituality. If you show diligence, these potentials will be realized.
Notice what a great movement will be created in society the day when 100, 500 and 1,000 personalities like Imam (r.a.) emerge. Notice what a great event takes place in our society when there are hundreds of outstanding personalities who are well-informed in religious teachings, who have complete mastery over religious logic, philosophy, kalaam and new philosophy and who have the capability to challenge those who promote falsehoods. Notice what a bright sun comes up in this corner of the world and what bright rays it casts over intellectual environments throughout the world when thousands of books, journals and articles - which have been written by our clergy - are published in different languages in the entire world. 
All of these things are possible. This is not a figment of the imagination. You should not think that these are vain and meaningless desires. This is not the case. These are attainable realities. But we should reach out our hands and grasp these realities. This requires diligence. You should study in a serious way. This is the same piece of advice that I have always offered to young clergy.
You should acquire those fields of knowledge which are available to Islamic seminaries and you should develop the spirit of research in a very efficient way. One cannot become a researcher by patching things together. One cannot become a faqih and philosopher by collecting snow. You should pile up bricks in a very organized way and go up until you reach the peak.
You are enlightened in the arena of knowledge and purity. Your hearts are clean and pure. You are pure and therefore, you should preserve your purity. You should avoid sins and attach significance to dhikr and attention to God. The ayah that was recited in the meeting - "So, whoever desires, let him take a return to his Lord" [The Holy Quran, 78: 39] - means that anyone who wants can move towards God and familiarize himself with Him. During daily prayers, we should feel in the true sense of the word that we are speaking to someone, that we are asking Him for His help, seeking refuge in and supplicating before Him and that we are attracting His mercy, blessings and assistance.
Primarily, what we should do is to avoid sins. Secondly, we should engage in wajibat [obligatory acts], nafelehs and prayers. You youth have a very good source of investment. The slightest effort and endeavor will help you move forward. Therefore, knowledge and piety are two major bases. Piety, self-edification, purity, wisdom, insight, intellectuality and familiarity with the issues of society and the world are the main bases. 
You may be knowledgeable and pious, but you may lower your head and move forward without knowing the world. Then, you will see that you are far away from the main road. We have had such personalities. They were very good, religious and knowledgeable people, but they lost the front line. When one does not have a compass, one will easily lose the path. Many of you youth have not experienced the war. When you are on the front, you can easily lose the path. We may think that we are shooting at the enemy, but because we do not know the correct direction, we find out that we are shooting at our own camp.
Instead of shooting their spiritual bullets at the enemy, some people aimed their cannons at their own camp and they hit their own side as much as they could. We have seen such people. We have seen this during the time of revolutionary activities and the reason was lack of knowledge and understanding. You should acquire knowledge. You should preserve your insight and intellectuality. You should preserve and strengthen your determination, diligence and tirelessness. 
I hope that Allah the Exalted will bestow his blessings on you on a daily basis. I hope that the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake) will pay special attention to you good and religious youth. I hope that by Allah's favor, all of you will benefit from the blessings of that great personality and that you will play many roles in the future of Islam and Muslims and in the future of the country.
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
