
<meta year="2004" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with Government Officials"/>
Today is the birthday anniversary of the Holy Prophet of Islam - Hazrat Muhammad al-Mustafa (God's greetings be upon him and his household). It is also the birthday anniversary of Hazrat Imam Ja'far as-Sadiq (peace and greetings be upon him). Today is a great Eid for the Islamic Ummah. 
First, I would like to congratulate the great Islamic Ummah, the dear people of Iran and the honorable participants in this meeting - particularly the foreign guests and brothers who are present here - on this auspicious occasion. Second, we Muslims have many things to say to show our respect towards the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.). We have many things to discuss among ourselves on this matter. This is because the Holy Prophet of Islam (s.w.a.) was the teacher of all good deeds, justice, human values, understanding, brotherhood, growth, perfection and human beings' constant progress until the end of history.
Today, what I want to discuss with you outstanding and chosen personalities of the Islamic Ummah is the issue of unity and solidarity between Muslims. Today, the world of Islam and the Islamic Ummah are faced with great disasters. Many of these disasters have emerged from inside us Muslims. We showed laziness and negligence. We did not tread the Islamic Ummah's path towards the peak of human perfection because of our selfishness and materialistic desires. We should turn back, we should begin to move forward and we should repent. However, there is no doubt that in recent eras, part of this backwardness and these disasters and problems have resulted from a wrong system in the world. This system existed in the past and exists in the present time as well. This global system is the system of obtaining power and relying on oppression. It is not a system that has been designed for human beings. Rather, it has been designed for jungle life. 
Take a look at the conditions of the world of Islam. For many years, we used to remind ourselves of the issue of Palestine as a deep wound on the body of the Islamic Ummah. But today, Iraq has been added as well. They put forward and implement all unreasonable and wrong ideas by relying on the logic of weapons and political and monetary power. They promote them as defensible and reasonable ideas. They openly commit wrongdoings which are considered by all nations in the world to be appalling crimes. Sometimes, they give them a nice name for the sake of appearances. This is while they themselves know that no one will accept them. And sometimes, they do not even try to justify their crimes. The usurping Zionist regime openly says that it assassinates Palestinian outstanding personalities and the government of America officially and clearly supports it. This is the condition of the current system in the world.
Terrorism - the arrogant government of America uses the issue of fighting against terrorism as an excuse for obtaining power and behaving in a bullying manner - has become a legitimate practice in the words and actions of Zionist rulers. They do all these things by relying on bullying and the power of their weapons. Occupying Iraq and humiliating and belittling a cultural and great people is an international crime, but they have done this openly in the name of human rights and defending democracy and freedom. However, no one in the world believes what they say because the behavior of the occupiers in Iraq shows the exact opposite of this. It is clear that they do not at all believe in human rights and the right of people for electing their own government. They do not place any value on such things. They themselves install governments and rulers. They themselves pass laws and punish - by death - the violators without any trial. Notice what is happening in Iraq. This is the condition of the Islamic Ummah in the present time.
The Islamic Ummah is the victim of powers' greed and transgression because of committing the crime of being located in a rich region. It has become their victim because the spinning of the wheel of the current civilization in the world is dependent on the resources which are abundant in this area of the world. For this reason, these powers allow themselves to commit any crime they want. This is the condition of the Islamic Ummah. Can the Islamic Ummah not defend itself against this transgression of powers? The answer is that it can. We can defend ourselves. We have many weapons for defending our rights and our existence. We Muslim nations have a large population. We have great sources of wealth. We have outstanding personalities and spiritual resources that give our peoples the power to resist against bullies. We have a long-established culture and civilization which is unique in the world. We have many resources. So, we can defend ourselves potentially, but why do we not do so? Why can we not do anything in the arena of action?
It is because we are not united. It is because they have separated us from one another with different excuses. They have divided a great, disciplined and well-equipped army, namely the Islamic Ummah, into groups which have focused all their efforts on intimidating, attacking and fighting against one another. These groups only think about scratching each others' faces. Under such circumstances, it is clear that this army cannot be efficient.
Today, it is time for the world of Islam to reconsider. It should seriously reconsider the issue of unity. Today, America's threat in the region is not only aimed at one, two countries. It is aimed at everyone. Today, the Zionist capitalists behind the ruling system of America will not be satisfied with swallowing one part of our region. They want to swallow the entire region and they say this openly in the present time. "The Great Middle East Project" has no meaning other than this. Since 50-plus years ago, when the usurping Zionist regime was formed, and since 100 years ago - when this thought was shaped in western and European societies - their intention has been to swallow and loot this region because they need this. Regional peoples are not important to them at all. All of them are under their threats.
When everyone is under threat, the wisest option is that everyone begins to think and joins hands with others. Our serious advice and recommendation to Islamic governments and nations is that we should think and work on this issue. Before we do so, there are certain preliminary steps that have to be taken. Of course, the enemy does not remain idle and he uses the old weapon of fitna. He uses tribalism and ethnic prejudice and he highlights the issues that Islam does not want to be highlighted. Islam has stressed that ethnicity and one's tribe is not the standard for determining one's identity. "Verily the most honored of you in the sight of Allah is he who is the most pious" [The Holy Quran, 49: 13].
Islam has stressed that Muslim brothers should behave in a brotherly way towards one another. It has not specifically referred to Sunni or Shia brothers or brothers from other Islamic denominations. Rather, it has said that "The believers are but a single brotherhood" [The Holy Quran, 49: 13]. Anyone who believes in the Book - the Holy Quran - this religion and this qiblah is a believer. Islam has said to us that believers are one another's brothers, but we hide daggers behind us to strike the hearts of our brothers. And culprits exist in all areas. These people should be stopped and confronted. Today, the Islamic Ummah needs unity for continuing its life, achieving honor, liberating itself and hoisting the flag of Islam.
Which logic can resist these issues? Unity has priority over all necessities and matters. It is more important than other priorities. Why do we not understand the necessity of unity among Muslims? A great responsibility falls on our shoulders and the present time is a sensitive time. If enemies can occupy the region by using their power, the world of Islam will continue to be backward for another 100 years like the era of imperialism. If this is done, the gap between the Islamic Ummah and the modern and industrial world will widen for another 100 years. We should answer for this.
Today, we are responsible. Today, governments, outstanding and prominent personalities and cultural and religious men are responsible. All of us are responsible towards the unity of the world of Islam. One of the most important issues that our magnanimous Imam (may God bestow paradise on him) used to address and highlight since before the revolutionary era until the end of his life was the unity of the Islamic Ummah and solidarity between Muslims. He insisted that Muslims should avoid magnifying small problems. And today we can see and understand that it was a very wise and accurate piece of advice.
I ask Allah the Exalted to awaken all of us from this slumber of ignorance by the blessedness of the immaculate soul of the last Prophet - Adam's best child - and the efforts that this peerless human personality made. I ask Him to awaken us from this slumber by the blessedness of the efforts that great Muslims made and by the blessedness of the immaculate soul of Imam Ja'far as-Sadiq (peace and greetings be upon him) and the efforts that he made. I hope that God will guide us towards the straight path and that He will familiarize us with our responsibilities and enable us to carry them out. I hope that He will direct the malevolence of Muslims' enemies towards themselves. 
Greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings

