
<meta year="2004" title="Leader's Speech in Meeting with People from Different Social Backgrounds on the Occasion of "/>
I would like to welcome all the dear brothers and sisters who are present in this warm and brotherly gathering, particularly the honorable families of our dear martyrs and the brothers and sisters who have come from other cities. I also welcome you Iraqi brothers and academics who have participated in this meeting.
The last days of the month of Safar are memorable days for the world of Shia and Islam. We are approaching the days of the Holy Prophet's (God's greetings be upon him and his household) demise anniversary. The Holy Prophet (s.w.a.) lived his life in the way of God and he dedicated it to promoting divine teachings. Therefore, his life and the unique and peerless personality of that great personality is a permanent example, lesson and model for people living in all eras of the history of Islam: "You have indeed in the Messenger of Allah a beautiful example of conduct" [The Holy Quran, 33: 21].
With his diligence, Islamic teachings spread and developed throughout history. These teachings are not particular to Muslims. The entire humanity benefits from the development of Islamic teachings. If we Muslims appreciate the value of Islamic teachings and understand their depth, we will manage to create a new world which is compatible with the real and natural needs of human beings. By relying on Islam, the Islamic Ummah can save the world which is drowned in lust, rage, ignorance, selfishness and egotism. The essence of all Islamic teachings and concepts is that people's behavior and movement in life should not be controlled by lust and rage. Its essence is that selfishness should not lead human beings and human societies. Rather, they should be led by reason and piety.
Take a look at the pains of humans. What do poverty, discrimination, corruption, folly and irrational prejudice stem from? Where do massacre of people, wars, oppression and cruelties in human societies come from? The root of all these disasters lies in the fact that whenever those individuals who have no self-control and who are slaves to lust, rage, selfishness, ambition and wealth dominate the fate of humanity in a corner of the world, they drag humanity towards poverty, war, ignorance, discrimination, corruption and chaos. Islam wants to cure this. Islam says that humanity's will and freedom - which is one of the greatest divine blessings to human beings - should not be in the hands of ignorance, cruelty, materialism, selfishness and egotism. Rather, it should be in the hands of reason and piety.
When we said that this year is the year of "responsiveness" we did not mean that responsiveness is a western concept. Rather, it is an Islamic concept. Whenever some people like something, they try to somehow ascribe it to western thoughts and civilization. This is not the case. Responsiveness is an Islamic truth. It is the same as being responsible. Being responsible means that individuals - at any level they are - should primarily criticize themselves. They should see what factors influenced their behavior, statements and decisions. They should see if their behavior was reasonable and on the basis of piety or it was based on selfishness, lust and personal motives.
If individuals can ease their conscience and answer these questions, they will be able to be responsive to others as well: "Every act of hearing, or of seeing or of feeling in the heart will be enquired into" [The Holy Quran, 17: 36]. Your eyes can see, notice and identify. Your ears can hear the truth, transfer it to your heart and influence your body parts and your heart can feel, make a decision and choose a path - One's true identity is referred to as "heart" in Islamic teachings. These are tools for which you will be questioned by Allah the Exalted.
All of us should answer what we saw with our eyes and if we ever saw anything or if we wanted to see, hear, make a decision and take action or not. This is responsiveness: "All of you are guardians and rulers and all of you are responsible towards your subordinates" [Bihar al-Anwar, Volume 72, page 38]. All of you are responsible. Of course, those individuals whose words and decisions influence a large number of people are more responsible than others. This is why I said that the high-ranking officials of the country and the three branches of government - ranging from the Leadership to all officials and managers - should all be responsive.
They should answer for their measures and for the statements and decisions that they have made. This is the meaning of being responsive. It is an Islamic truth to which all of us should be committed. If any individual who wants to speak knows that they have to be responsive, they speak in a certain manner. But if they know that they are free to say whatever they want and that they are not going to answer for it, they speak in a different manner. If any individual who wants to make a decision and take a course of action knows that they have to answer for it, they act in a certain manner. But if they feel that they are free to do whatever they want and that they will not be questioned and inquired, they will act in a different manner. We officials should be careful about what we say and what decisions we make. This is why having a responsibility is a source of respect and this is why people respect officials. There is a world of responsibility behind an official's work and decisions. If he considers himself to be responsive, he is really worthy of this respect, but if he does not, everything will become difficult.
Take a look at the scene of the world. What do Iraq's conditions result from today? It results from the sense of power that an unbridled and uncontrolled system - that is to say, the government of America, which is not responsive to public opinion throughout the world - has. Today, what is happening in Iraq is an appalling and savage crime and it is a really shocking phenomenon. Because of its political and economic interests and because of filling the stomach of oil and Zionist companies from other countries, a foreign power has made certain plans which it calls "fighting against terrorism". They have entered Iraq and they humiliated a country with a deep and rich culture and a people with such historical background, courage and identity.
They have dug their claws into this country and they are insulting it in different ways. And they expected the people of Iraq not to stand up against them. They expected not to witness this situation in Iraq. We had predicted this situation. A few months ago, we announced to public opinion throughout the world that the Americans are provoking the people of Iraq to engage in a violent armed conflict. Today, if you see that Iraqi youth - both Shia and Sunni - in Najaf, Fallujah, Baghdad and other cities look angrily at the Americans and that they will undoubtedly deliver blows to them if they can do so, this is because of what the Americans have done and no one else is to blame.
The people of Iraq are not mad to attack and accuse people with no reason. The Americans cannot say that they were provoked by this and that. They cannot say that such and such a group are interfering. This is not the case. No one has provoked them. This is the identity of the Iraqi nation which is revealing itself. If you occupy a people's land, if you tell your soldiers to march in their streets and alleys, if you disrespect and harass their women and if you throw their youth on the ground with their faces down and put your boots on their heads, I - who am sitting here - cannot tolerate it, let alone for a religious and zealous Iraqi youth. It is not necessary for anyone to provoke them. You yourselves are the greatest and most vicious provokers of the people of Iraq.
Why did you enter their houses? Why did you tell lies? You had said that you were looking for weapons of mass destruction. Where are these weapons? Why did you not find them? Are we saying these things now? In America and Europe, outstanding political and other such personalities shouted and said, "You told lies". They said to Bush and his gang that they told lies. You entered Iraq on the basis of a lie. Your goal was not to fight against weapons of mass destruction. Rather, your goal was to occupy Iraq, possess its oil and get close to the heart of the world of Islam. You wanted to occupy the heart of the world of Islam. It is they themselves who are secretly committing crimes and massacring the people. And Sunni and Shia do not matter to them.
They show enmity to all the people of Iraq if they do not kneel before them. They say, "You have to kneel before us without talking. You should close your eyes so that we do whatever we like to you. Otherwise, you are enemies and terrorists". This is the logic of occupiers and America in Iraq. They are making a mistake. They stupidly think that the people of the world are not aware of what they do. They think that they can continue in this manner. 
They speak about democracy and say, "We have come to Iraq for the sake of democracy". But their democracy is one in which the people are not present. It is not democracy at all. Rather, it is genocide. Have they come for democracy and human rights? Is human rights this? Today, they have darkened the face of western civilization more than it used to be. But they are making a mistake and they will not succeed.
I will tell you that today, what the government of America wants to do to the people of Iraq is the same as what Sharon wants to do to the Palestinians. That is to say, it wants to respond to any statement and complaint by showing iron fists. And they will succeed in doing that in the same way that the Zionists did! It is 60 years now that the Zionists have been dominating Palestine. Some years passed without the Palestinians showing any movement and enthusiasm. But in the present time, life has become difficult for the Zionists. 
They have reached a point where they cannot even tolerate a cleric and disabled old man who is in a wheelchair. They cannot tolerate someone like Sheikh Ahmed Yasin. The Americans have adopted the same policy in Iraq. They think that this policy will work for them. They adopt all sorts of measures ranging from closing newspapers to killing the people.
What the Americans do is despicable, disgusting and loathsome according to all human principles. And on the basis of all natural laws, they are doomed to failure. The Americans should know that sooner or later, they will have to leave Iraq disgraced and humiliated. Our Iraqi brothers can shorten this time span. They can get close to eliminating this great danger. With what? With unity, with reliance on Islam, with preservation of their Islamic spirit and faith and with employment of wisdom and acumen.
They should appreciate the value of ulama. They should appreciate the value of ulama and the position of the marja taqlids. They should appreciate the value of these unifying pivots. They should appreciate the value of their faith and they should not fall into the trap of discord that the enemy has set for them. Today, one of the definite plans of the enemies - that is to say, the Americans, the English and their friends and cohorts - in Iraq is to create discord. They should not fall into this trap. By Allah's favor, we will see a day when Iraq will live an independent and free life under the flag of Islam.
Dear God, Bestow dignity and honor on all Muslims throughout the world. Dear God, make us and the entire Islamic Ummah benefit from the pure prayers of the Imam of the Age (may our souls be sacrificed for his sake). Help the hearts of Muslim brothers all over the world to get close to one another and help them to get rid of their enemies' malevolence.
Peace and greetings be upon you and Allah's mercy and blessings
